
 Greater Manchester Formulary 
   [img: netFormulary] 
 [img: NHS] 
 Greater Manchester 
 Medicines Management Group Formulary 
 Home 
 About 
 Admin 
 netFormulary 
 Chapters 
 Medicines A-Z 
 News 
 Mobile 
 Reports 
 Contact Us 
  Introduction 
 Welcome to the GMMMG Formulary 
 [img: Logo] 
 [img: logo] 
 Useful Links 
 To use the formulary please either:
 click on the menu heading above labelled Chapters 
 use the search box above to find a specific entry 
 Greater Manchester Medicines Management Group (GMMMG) 
 Clinical Guidelines and Pathways 
 Antimicrobial Guidelines and Resources 
 Paediatric RAG list 
 Shared Care Protocols 
 Information for Primary Care Prescribers 
 Consultations on GMMMG formulary updates and guidelines 
 Process for formulary applications 
 Guidelines on Defining RAG status and Framework on Assigning DNP and grey status   
 Prescribing policies 
 GMMMG decision summaries 
 Greater Manchester Integrated Care Partnership 
 The GMMMG formulary ensures that patients receive seamless care across the primary-secondary care interface and reduces the need for switching programmes. Adherence to the formulary is strongly recommended by GMMMG and this formulary supersedes all local formularies. The formulary is applicable to new initiations and should meet the needs of the majority of adult patients.
 Exceptions may arise and it is to be remembered that the formulary cannot be expected to include every possible use of every drug.  Primary care prescribers and specialist teams are encouraged to discuss individual patient circumstances and consider where prescribing is best managed, taking into account monitoring requirements, drug interactions, frequency of routine patient visits to the specialist and the specialist nature of the condition being treated.  Clinical judgement should be used to arrive at the most reasonable outcome. However, if it is not possible to reach a consensus or a specific issue has arisen, please submit an application to the Clinical Reference Group to assess or re-assess the RAG status.
 All medicines recommended for use in the NHS in a NICE Technology Appraisals are approved for use in Greater Manchester. Where one or more NICE Technology Appraisals are listed on a formulary entry, the indications listed are those approved for use in Greater Manchester. Indications not listed are considered non-formulary. 
 The GMMMG Formulary lists products by generic drug name. For some drugs, branded generics may offer a more economical means of procurement in Primary Care. In this instance the brand with the lowest acquisition cost and greatest ease of acquisition should be prescribed according to local choice.
 News Feed 
 Formulary last updated: 
 23 rd  September 2026  
 For more information see:
 GMMMG news feed 
 GMMMG decision summaries 
 Formulary updates - April 2026
 Following approval by the ICB Strategic Commisisoning Committee, the formulary has been updated to reflect the recommendations of GMMMG and CEGC.
 For more details on decisions, please see https://gmmmg.nhs.uk/gmmmg-decisions-approved-april-2026/ .
 Formulary updates - February & March 2026
 Following approval by the ICB Executive, the formulary has been updated to reflect the recommendations of GMMMG and CEGC.
 For more details on decisions, please see  https://gmmmg.nhs.uk/gmmmg-decisions-approved-february-march/ 
 Formulary updates - February 2026
 Following approval by GM CEGC, the formulary has been updated to reflect initial GMMMG recommendations.
 For more details on decisions, please see https://gmmmg.nhs.uk/gmmmg-updates-february-2026/ .
 Formulary updates - December 2025
 Following approval by the ICB Executive, the formulary has been updated to reflect the recommendations of GMMMG and CEGC.
 For more details on decisions, please see https://gmmmg.nhs.uk/december-decisions-approved/ .
 Formulary updates - Sept-Nov 2025
 Following approval by the ICB Executive, the formulary has been updated to reflect the recommendations of GMMMG and CEGC.
 For more details on decisions, please see https://gmmmg.nhs.uk/decisions-approved-by-icb-executive-sept-oct-nov-25/ 
 >>> more news 
 [img: line break] 
 [img: NetFormulary] 
