 
 You searched for toujeo - GMMMG 
 Log in 
 [img: Greater Manchester Medicines Management Group - GMMMG logo] 
 Navigation
 Home 
 Homepage 
 News Summary 
 Consultations 
 Joint Formulary 
 RAG/DNP 
 Adult RAG list 
 Paediatric RAG List 
 Shared Care 
 Approved Shared Care Protocols 
 GMMMG Guidance 
 Clinical guidance and pathways 
 Antimicrobial guidance and resources 
 Information leaflets for primary care prescribers 
 Medicines and devices recommendations 
 Seven minute briefings 
 High cost drugs 
 Prescribing policies 
 Operational policies 
 Primary care rebate schemes 
 Meetings 
 Membership and Terms of Reference 
 Decision Summaries 
 GMMMG Meetings 
 Clinical Reference Group 
 GMMMG Process Documents 
 Subgroup Meetings Archives 
 Search GMMMG
 Home » You searched for toujeo 
 Search Results for: toujeo 
 NTS Minutes 15th September 2015 
 ACTION: BR to draft recommendation as above Insulin Glargine – Toujeo ® The group discussed the data for the higher strength insulin glargine – Toujeo ® and noted the following points: Toujeo ® is a higher-strength formulation (300 units/mL), than the existing insulin glargine product on the market (Lantus®, 100 units/mL).
 July-2018-FMESG-minutes-final 
 Both endocrinologists expressed an interest in items 2.1, particularly with regards Toujeo ®, however as the group had invited them to attend to provide a view on these items that was deemed acceptable, neither clinician was present or involved in any decision-making with regards these items.
 March-19-FMESG-minutes-FINAL 
 The group ultimately agreed that there was insufficient evidence to support routine use of Toujeo over other analogue insulins and did not recommend formulary inclusion. Action: FMESG recommend that proposed positioning be applied to Toujeo , and the existing NTS statement updated accordingly.
 November-2019-FMESG-minutes-approved 
 In particular this highlights safety concerns associated with the different product strengths of Toujeo ® and Toujeo Doublestar® preparations. AM to raise a communication via CCG leads around ensuring an alert is added to GP prescribing systems for both strengths of Toujeo .
 FMESG-Sept-2018-minutes-approved 
 2) Insulin glargine 300 units/mL ( Toujeo ) The group noted that following a request for Toujeo audit data, this had only be returned by five CCGs.
 NTS-Minutes-November-17th-2015 
 The draft recommendation for Toujeo ® was approved however the group asked if a sentence relating to 'the reduction of numbers of injections required for those patients on high doses' could be included.
 August-2018-FMESG-minutes-final 
 4 Additional items Toujeo : at the July meeting, FMESG agreed that in the absence of a defined population for use, there is insufficient evidence to support routine use of Toujeo over other analogue insulins, and did not recommend formulary inclusion pending further information from the applicant defining target population.
 October-19-FMESG-minutes-approved 
 The charts demonstrated that there is variance in the weighted prescribing of high strength insulins across the GM CCGs and that prescribing growth within GM significantly exceeds the national average, especially for Toujeo .
 April-19-FMESG-minutes-final 
 2.0 Medicines Optimisation 2.1 Diabetes chapter 2.1.1 Draft Toujeo recommendation The group reviewed a draft update of the FMESG recommendation on Toujeo . The wording on Toujeo DoubleStar pen devices to be updated to note that this device delivers doses in increments of two units.
 FMESG-Oct-2018-minutes-FINAL 
 Toujeo : A large number of comments were received on this item.
 Posts navigation
 Older posts 
 Follow GMMMG on Twitter 
 Terms and Conditions 
 Contact 
 About us 
 RSS Feed 
 This website use a combination of essential and non-essential cookies to give you the best on-site experience. Accept Reject Cookie information 
 You can change your non-essential cookie choice at any time by using the Change non-essential cookie choice button. Change non-essential cookie choice 
 