 
 You searched for degludec - GMMMG 
 Log in 
 [img: Greater Manchester Medicines Management Group - GMMMG logo] 
 Navigation
 Home 
 Homepage 
 News Summary 
 Consultations 
 Joint Formulary 
 RAG/DNP 
 Adult RAG list 
 Paediatric RAG List 
 Shared Care 
 Approved Shared Care Protocols 
 GMMMG Guidance 
 Clinical guidance and pathways 
 Antimicrobial guidance and resources 
 Information leaflets for primary care prescribers 
 Medicines and devices recommendations 
 Seven minute briefings 
 High cost drugs 
 Prescribing policies 
 Operational policies 
 Primary care rebate schemes 
 Meetings 
 Membership and Terms of Reference 
 Decision Summaries 
 GMMMG Meetings 
 Clinical Reference Group 
 GMMMG Process Documents 
 Subgroup Meetings Archives 
 Search GMMMG
 Home » You searched for degludec 
 Search Results for: degludec 
 updated NTS Recommendation Xultophy -Insulin Degludec Liraglutide- for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes 
 20th May 2015 Insulin Degludec & Liraglutide (Xultophy® ) The recommendation of this subgroup is as follows:* The New Therapies Subgroup of the GMMMG considered the use of Insulin Degludec & Liraglutide (Xultophy® ) Insulin degludec is not routinely recommended.
 April-19-FMESG-minutes-final 
 2.1.2 Draft insulin degludec recommendation The group reviewed a draft update of the FMESG recommendation on insulin degludec . Action: RDTC to re-draft the statements on insulin degludec , and insulin degludec + liraglutide, and circulate to the group for approval.
 NTS-May-2015-Minutes 
 ACTION: BR to add to agenda once price for albiglutide is issued 2f) Xultophy® (insulin degludec /liraglutide) re-review The group noted Xultophy® was now launched so a price was now available. Xultophy® is less costly than use of degludec and liraglutide separately and reduces injection frequency.
 NTS-May-2015-Minutes 
 ACTION: BR to add to agenda once price for albiglutide is issued 2f) Xultophy® (insulin degludec /liraglutide) re-review The group noted Xultophy® was now launched so a price was now available. Xultophy® is less costly than use of degludec and liraglutide separately and reduces injection frequency.
 GMMMG Decision Summary_February 2022 1 of 2 
 …GREEN Update The proposed amendments incorporate the Nil – None Approved following chapter 6 recommendations in NG17, the existing GMMMG insulin reflects specialist degludec recommendation and the RAG assignment agreed existing initiation by the FMESG in 2019. 
 Formulary and Managed Entry Subgroup 
 Xultophy is a combination of insulin degludec and liraglutide. Xultophy offers a fixed dose ratio of degludec + liraglutide, and does not allow the dose of either drug to be altered independently of the other.
 NTS Minutes 21st July 2015 
 For those patients requiring doses of insulin degludec of 34 units and above, they will receive higher than the NICE recommended dose of 1.2mg liraglutide when using Xultophy®. The New Therapies Subgroup of the GMMMG considered the use of Insulin Degludec & Liraglutide (Xultophy® )
 Sept-2017-FMESG-minutes-FNL 
 Xultophy offers a fixed dose ratio of degludec + liraglutide, and does not allow the dose of either drug to be altered independently of the other. Whilst Xultophy remains cheaper than using degludec + liraglutide separately, it costs more than the cheapest combination of long-acting insulin analogue + GLP-1 agonist (Abasaglar® +
 July-19-FMESG-minutes 
 Insulin degludec to be Grey and GREEN (specialist initiation, non-formulary) for patients with type 1 diabetes and 2 diabetes mellitus. It was agreed that degludec would be added to the monitoring log to track prescribing trend (as for Toujeo).
 Minutes-CRG-August-2021-FINAL 
 Insulin detemir is recommended as the first choice basal insulin and insulin glargine and degludec are alternatives depending on the specific situation as described in the guidance.
 Posts navigation
 Older posts 
 Follow GMMMG on Twitter 
 Terms and Conditions 
 Contact 
 About us 
 RSS Feed 
 This website use a combination of essential and non-essential cookies to give you the best on-site experience. Accept Reject Cookie information 
 You can change your non-essential cookie choice at any time by using the Change non-essential cookie choice button. Change non-essential cookie choice 
 