
 NHS Hampshire and Isle of Wight Formulary 
   [img: netFormulary] 
 [img: NHS] 
 NHS Hampshire and Isle of Wight 
 Formulary 
 Home 
 About 
 Admin 
 netFormulary 
 Chapters 
 Medicines A-Z 
 News 
 Mobile 
 Reports 
 Contact Us 
  Introduction 
Welcome to the NHS Hampshire and Isle of Wight Joint Medicines Formulary
 [img: Logo] 
 [img: logo] 
 Useful Links 
 About the formulary and our traffic light status  
 please read 
 Formulary request process and forms 
   Formulary RAG rating criteria   
 Formulary request process flowchart   
 Hampshire and Isle Of Wight Medicines Evaluation (Formulary application) Request Form 
 Hampshire and Isle of Wight Request Form for Primary Care FP10 Prescribable Devices 
 Hampshire and Isle of Wight Request Form for Change of Formulary RAG Status 
 Hampshire and Isle of Wight ICB  
 Hampshire and Isle of Wight Integrated Care Board Medicines Optimisation   
 Hampshire and Isle of Wight Biosimilar medicines position statement and guidance 
 Hampshire and Isle of Wight Shared Care Guidelines 
 Hampshire and Isle of Wight Clinical Guidelines 
 NHS Hampshire and Isle of Wight ICB Individal Funding Requests form (IFRs)   
 Priorities Committee HIOW ICB Policies and Application Forms 
 Hospital pharmacy  
  Portsmouth Hospitals University NHS Trust Pharmacy 
 University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Trust Pharmacy 
 UHS Hospital Pharmacy Southampton (outpatient prescriptions) 
 Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust Pharmacy 
 Hampshire and Isle of Wight Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust Medicines Managment 
 Isle of Wight NHS Trust St Mary's Hospital Pharmacy 
 National Guidance and Commissioning  
  NICE Guidance 
 NHS England Specialised Commissioning Documents 
 NHS England National Tariff Payment Scheme documents 
 NHS England High Cost Drugs Commissioning List 
 NHS England Guidance for ICBs:  Conditions for which over the counter items should not routinely be prescribed in primary care  and implementation resources
 NHS England Guidance for ICBs:  Items which should not be routinely prescribed in primary care 
 HIOW Management of Early Access and Free of Charge Medicines Schemes 
 NHS England Responsibility for prescribing between Primary & Secondary/Tertiary Care 
 Medicine Information 
 Medicines Supply Tool 
 Latest information on national medicines supply issues (free access with login required). 
 MHRA Central Alerting System 
 Medicines Learning Portal 
 Yellow Card Reporting 
 News Feed 
 August 2026: Formulary updates list 
 April 2025: The HIOW Joint Formulary RAG rating criteria is now available on our front page along with an update to our formulary request process flowchart, see links opposite. 
 The NHS in the Hampshire and Isle of Wight Integrated Care Board  (HIOW ICB) reviews the use of medicines through the Hampshire and Isle of Wight Prescribing Committee (HIOW PC). This committee aims to ensure there is a consistent approach to prescribing the most effective, safe and cost effective medicines across the local healthcare community. The NHS Hampshire and Isle of Wight joint Medicines Formulary follows recommendations from the HIOW PC. It is for use by all primary and secondary care prescribers within the HIOW ICB locality.
 This formulary provides a list of medicines available for routine prescribing or those available within certain criteria. Unless otherwise stated, the medicines selected are recommended as first choice, particularly for new patients. Those patients stabilised on other therapies may be switched to a formulary drug if and when clinically appropriate. 
 For further details please read the 'About' section.
 For any queries related to the Formulary please use the 'Contact us' function
 [img: line break] 
 [img: NetFormulary] 
 [img: Download net formulary from Apple IOS Store] 
  [img: Google Play net formulary] 
 This website uses cookies to store an organisational reference to the formulary to enhance site performance. We also use cookies to help analyse how visitors use this site. Analytics uses "cookies", which are small text files placed on your computer, to collect standard internet log information and visitor behaviour information in an anonymous form. This information is then processed to compile statistical reports on website activity. We will not associate any data gathered from this site with any personally identifiable information from any source. Privacy Policy .
 Accept 
