
 Kent and Medway Formulary 
 Kent and Medway
 Joint Medicines Formulary
 [img: NHS Kent and Medway] 
 Therapeutic Sections 
 Gastro-intestinal system 
 Cardiovascular system 
 Respiratory system 
 Nervous system 
 Infection 
 Endocrine system 
 Genito-urinary system 
 Immune system and malignant disease 
 Blood and Nutrition 
 Musculoskeletal system 
 Eye 
 Ear, nose and oropharynx 
 Skin 
 Vaccines 
 Anaesthesia 
 Preparations used in diagnosis 
 Emergency treatment of poisoning 
 Wound Management 
 Over the Counter Items 
 K&M ICB Guidelines 
 KMICB - Antimicrobial Guidelines 
 KMICB - Gastro-intestinal system 
 KMICB - Cardiovascular system 
 KMICB - Respiratory system 
 KMICB - Nervous system 
 KMICB - Endocrine system 
 KMICB - Genito-urinary system 
 KMICB - Immune system and malignant disease 
 KMICB - Blood and nutrition 
 KMICB - Musculoskeletal system 
 KMICB - Eye 
 KMICB - Ear, nose and oropharynx 
 KMICB - Skin 
 KMICB - Vaccines 
 KMICB - Shared Care Guidance 
 KMICB - Palliative Care 
 KMICB - Miscellaneous 
 KMICB - Communications 
 KMICB - Stoma Products 
 KMICB - Continence products 
 KMICB - Care Home Resources 
 High Cost Drugs 
 Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust (MTW) 
 MTW - Antimicrobial Guidelines 
 MTW - Electrolyte Guidelines 
 MTW - Thromboembolism Guidelines 
 MTW - Miscellaneous Guidelines 
 MTW - Drug Request Forms & Procedures 
 Dartford and Gravesham NHS Trust (DGT) 
 Medway Foundation Trust NHS Trust (MFT) 
 East Kent Primary Care and East Kent Hospitals University NHS Foundation Trust (EKHUFT) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Cardiovascular) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Eye) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Gastro-intestinal) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Nose) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Nutrition) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Oropharynx) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Respiratory) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Blood) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Nervous system) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Infection) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Endocrine) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Genito-urinary) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Malignant disease) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Musculoskeletal system) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Skin) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Vaccines) 
 EK - Prescribing Recommendations 
 Using the Formulary 
 Therapeutic Sections 
 K&M ICB Guidelines 
 K&M ICB Medicine Applications 
 K&M ICB Primary Care Newsletters 
 K&M ICB Integrated Medicines Optimisation Commitee (IMOC) Minutes 
 Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust (MTW) 
 Dartford and Gravesham NHS Trust (DGT) 
 Medway Foundation Trust NHS Trust (MFT) 
 East Kent Primary Care and East Kent Hospitals University NHS Foundation Trust (EKHUFT) 
 Intravenous Immunoglobulin (IVIG) 
 Drug Index 
 Search 
 The Kent and Medway Joint Medicines Formulary
 Welcome to the Kent and Medway Joint Medicines Formulary 
 The Kent and Medway joint medicines formulary has been developed to promote safe, effective, and economic prescribing across primary and secondary care in Kent and Medway in accordance with local and national guidance.
It provides clinical guidance on the management of a wide variety of common conditions, including locally recommended drug choices presented in a recognisable traffic light classification. 
 All material in this formulary is aimed at health professionals, but is information currently held within the public domain. Members of the public seeking advice on medicine-related matters are encouraged to speak with their GP, pharmacist or nurse, or contact NHS 111 service.
 The Kent and Medway joint medicines formulary is not a confined list, but a recommendation drawn up after consultation with the Kent and Medway ICB medicines optimisation team, local prescribers and in collaboration with Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust, Dartford and Gravesham NHS Trust, East Kent Hospitals University NHS Foundation Trust, Medway NHS Foundation Trust, Kent Community Health NHS Foundation Trust and Kent and Medway NHS and Social Care Partnership Trust.
 It has been accepted that not all medicines can be prescribed and supplied in the same way across all of Kent and Medway health economy and some clinical areas will continue to be reviewed to align across the system to reduce variation. While we have done our best to align as much as possible, some disparities remain. This could be due to different prescribing arrangements being in place within local areas and services. Ongoing work to address disparities will take place over the coming months to continue to review medicines out of alignment with full stakeholder engagement.
 The medicines approved for use within the Kent and Medway joint medicines formulary have been reviewed following NICE guidance for the development and update of local formularies. Only drugs previously present on a historical formulary could be considered for review to the Kent and Medway joint medicines Formulary. New medicines would still have to be considered for inclusion via the usual Governance processes in place. An editorial policy used to provide assurance can be seen here . This policy was approved for use to ensure clinical safety was maintained throughout the alignment process.
 NICE technology appraisal guidance
 Medicines recommended by NICE technology appraisal guidelines, will be incorporated into the formulary within 90 days of publication and once approved.
When a TA recommends use of a medicine that is not already in the formulary, the medicine will added to the appropriate section. Additions will be published following formal agreement of NICE recommendations at the Integrated Medicines Optimisation Committee.
 Every effort is made to ensure that the information contained in this formulary is accurate and up to date at the time of publication. Please be aware that information about medicines and therapeutics will change over time and maybe under review, and that information may not be current after the initial date of publication. Please take note of the publication date and seek further advice if in any doubt about the information shown. 
 Please send all Freedom of Information (FOI) requests to the ICB's FOI Team at  kmicb.foi@nhs.net 
 On Formulary Preferred
 On Formulary Second Line
 On Formulary Third Line
 Specialist Initiation
 Secondary Care Only
 Not Approved for Formulary
 Online Formulary by M.O.M. Systems 
 NICE guidance is available from https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance All rights reserved. Subject to Notice of rights .
 NICE guidance is prepared for the National Health Service in England. All NICE guidance is subject to regular review and may be updated or withdrawn. NICE accepts no responsibility for the use of its content in this product/publication.
 © Copyright 2026
 