
 Kent and Medway Formulary 
 Kent and Medway
 Joint Medicines Formulary
 [img: NHS Kent and Medway] 
 Therapeutic Sections 
 Gastro-intestinal system 
 Cardiovascular system 
 Respiratory system 
 Nervous system 
 Infection 
 Endocrine system 
 Genito-urinary system 
 Immune system and malignant disease 
 Blood and Nutrition 
 Musculoskeletal system 
 Eye 
 Ear, nose and oropharynx 
 Skin 
 Vaccines 
 Anaesthesia 
 Preparations used in diagnosis 
 Emergency treatment of poisoning 
 Wound Management 
 Over the Counter Items 
 K&M ICB Guidelines 
 KMICB - Antimicrobial Guidelines 
 KMICB - Gastro-intestinal system 
 KMICB - Cardiovascular system 
 KMICB - Respiratory system 
 KMICB - Nervous system 
 KMICB - Endocrine system 
 KMICB - Genito-urinary system 
 KMICB - Immune system and malignant disease 
 KMICB - Blood and nutrition 
 KMICB - Musculoskeletal system 
 KMICB - Eye 
 KMICB - Ear, nose and oropharynx 
 KMICB - Skin 
 KMICB - Vaccines 
 KMICB - Shared Care Guidance 
 KMICB - Palliative Care 
 KMICB - Miscellaneous 
 KMICB - Communications 
 KMICB - Stoma Products 
 KMICB - Continence products 
 KMICB - Care Home Resources 
 High Cost Drugs 
 Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust (MTW) 
 MTW - Antimicrobial Guidelines 
 MTW - Electrolyte Guidelines 
 MTW - Thromboembolism Guidelines 
 MTW - Miscellaneous Guidelines 
 MTW - Drug Request Forms & Procedures 
 Dartford and Gravesham NHS Trust (DGT) 
 Medway Foundation Trust NHS Trust (MFT) 
 East Kent Primary Care and East Kent Hospitals University NHS Foundation Trust (EKHUFT) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Cardiovascular) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Eye) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Gastro-intestinal) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Nose) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Nutrition) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Oropharynx) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Respiratory) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Blood) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Nervous system) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Infection) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Endocrine) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Genito-urinary) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Malignant disease) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Musculoskeletal system) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Skin) 
 EK - Local recommendations (Vaccines) 
 EK - Prescribing Recommendations 
 Using the Formulary 
 Therapeutic Sections 
 K&M ICB Guidelines 
 K&M ICB Medicine Applications 
 K&M ICB Primary Care Newsletters 
 K&M ICB Integrated Medicines Optimisation Commitee (IMOC) Minutes 
 Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust (MTW) 
 Dartford and Gravesham NHS Trust (DGT) 
 Medway Foundation Trust NHS Trust (MFT) 
 East Kent Primary Care and East Kent Hospitals University NHS Foundation Trust (EKHUFT) 
 Intravenous Immunoglobulin (IVIG) 
 Drug Index 
 Search 
 Using the Formulary
 If you wish to make a formulary application for addition of a medicine to the Kent and Medway Joint Medicines Formulary please see application documents here 
 Information can be found across three breakdown sections of the Kent and Medway joint medicines formulary: 
 1. Therapeutic Sections 
These include which medicines that are recommended for use. These are classified green (on formulary and preferred), yellow (on formulary and second line), purple (on formulary and third line), orange (specialist initiation), red  (secondary care only) and Grey (Not approved for formulary/not recommended). Information on medicine choice and links to other websites are included, e.g. NICE, MHRA etc.
 2.K&M  ICB Guidelines 
 Includes local Kent and Medway ICB primary care, but not exclusively, orientated prescribing guidance and information. Other items found here could be shared care protocols, High cost Drug manuals, Care home information and general shared information from the K&M ICB information related to medicines and prescribing.
 3. Acute Trust Guidelines 
 Includes local secondary care trust orientated prescribing guidance. Each trust has a dedicated page for trust specific guidelines. Just click on the appropriate trust to take you to their page.
 How to locate a medicine or keyword 
 1. Type the name of the drug or word into the search box on the top right of the screen. This will give the chapter(s) in which the drug/keyword is listed. OR
 2. Click on the therapeutic sections button on the left hand side of the home page to reveal BNF chapter headings. Then click on the relevant chapter which will display the drug groups in that chapter then click on the relevant drug group.
 3. To find a drug or keyword mentioned within a PDF document, search as for 1, then click the documents option and re-click on search.
 Colour status' 
 In most cases, the dominant colour status across the five formularies has been taken forward into the new Kent and Medway Joint Formulary. There will be changes so please take time to familiarise yourself with the colours. You will find on the bottom of each page a colour key that displays the prescribing status of every item on the formulary.
 For medicines that may appear to have changed status in particular from RED - Secondary care only to AMBER - Specialist initiated, please note the following. There is no expectation that all patients receive transfer of care instantly and this will be a process to make treatment more accessible for patients across Kent and Medway, patients should be stable before any change is made to the prescribing of medicines with clear communication of the ongoing treatment plans. The same applies for medicines that were GREEN – on formulary and is now a different colour AMBER – Specialist initiated. There is equally no expectation to refer these patients to secondary care or to switch the patient to an on-formulary option.
 Green, yellow and purple 
 Initiation: Any care setting 
Repeat Prescribing: Any care setting  
Monitoring: Any care setting
 Amber 
 Recommendation / Initiation: Specialist only
Repeat Prescribing: Any care setting  
Monitoring: Any care setting
 Amber with Shared Care 
 Initiation: Specialist only 
Repeat Prescribing: Any care setting  
Ongoing Monitoring: Any care setting 
 Specialist initiation 
 These medicines are recommended or initiated by a specialist and primary care prescribers may continue to prescribe on specialist advice.
 A specialist is not necessarily a consultant, rather a prescriber with specialist skills e.g., specialist registrar, nurse specialist, GP with Extended Role, community psychiatric nurse, tissue viability nurse, pharmacist.
 Primary care prescribers may be asked to take on additional monitoring once the patient has been stabilised on treatment by the specialist service. Monitoring of either medicine or disease does not necessarily require specialist skills or equipment. It may be appropriate that:
 The medicine should be prescribed by a relevant specialist as per the shared care protocol (if one exists), with monitoring of effectiveness and toxicity, until treatment is stable at which point the patient can be transferred to their own GP. A shared care icon will be present for such medicines.
 It is reasonable for a GP to write the first prescription after discussion with a relevant specialist clinician.
 It will be reasonable for some of these medicines to be initiated by prescribers from more than one speciality.
 For medicines that require a shared care protocol please see here for more detailed information.
 Red 
 Initiation: Secondary care only  
Repeat Prescribing: Secondary care only  
Ongoing Monitoring: Secondary care only
 If an item is marked as secondary care only this means it can only be prescribed by and received from a secondary care provider such as a hospital trust, this may include inpatient and outpatient prescribing. The trust will be able to provide information about the prescribing of the item and how it can be accessed. These drugs can not be prescribed within primary care.
 Non Formulary Prescribing 
 It is important that prescribers recognise the considerable cost implications of prescribing non-formulary drugs and the likelihood that funding may be required for some expensive drugs. The medicines included in this formulary have been selected on the basis of clinical effectiveness, cost effectiveness and patient acceptability. 
 Unlicensed Medicines 
 Prescribing of unlicensed medicines should usually remain the responsibility of the clinician initiating treatment. The Trust will accept responsibility for the continued supply. GP's are not obliged to continue prescribing of unlicensed medicines, as this carries greater clinical responsibility. Prescribing of licensed drugs being used for unlicensed indications may possibly be continued in primary care but this should be discussed and agreed with the GP
 Prescribers should adhere to the formulary status and recommendations listed in this formulary. 
 Please note;
 If an item cannot be found on the formulary it has not been approved for use within Kent and Medway.
 In exceptional circumstances a non-formulary drug may be prescribed where other options have proven to be ineffective or not tolerated.
 If a patient is stabilised on a non-formulary drug for a condition where changing treatment would be inappropriate e.g. epilepsy, the medication should be continued, when the patient transfers between care settings.
 Using icons 
 There are links to EMC and NICE for further information where applicable.
 [img: Go to the EMC website for more information and guidance.] 
 Link to EMC website
 [img: Unlicenced Drug] 
 Unlicensed Drug
 [img: Go to NICE for more information and guidance.] 
 Link to NICE website
 [img: Prescribe by Brand] 
 Brand Specific Prescribing Required
 [img: Ophthalmology Initiation] 
 Preparations to be initiated by Opthalmology specialists only
 [img: Controlled Drug] 
 Preparations classified as 'Controlled Drugs'
 [img: Carbon Zero] 
 Carbon footprint indicator
 [img: Go to the Blueteq website for more information and guidance.] 
 Blueteq required. Click icon to redirect to website to complete.
 [img: High Cost Drug] 
 High-Cost Drug
 [img: Over the Counter] 
 Available for purchase over the counter without a prescription.
 [img: Cytotoxic Drug] 
 Cytotoxic Drug
 [img: Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust ONLY] 
 Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust ONLY
 [img: Shared Care] 
 Drug subject to a shared care agreement
 [img: East Kent Hospital University Foundation Trust ONLY] 
 East Kent Hospital University Foundation Trust ONLY
 [img: Unlicenced Use] 
 Unlicensed use
 [img: Dartford and Gravesham NHS Trust ONLY] 
 Dartford and Gravesham NHS Trust ONLY
 [img: Supply/Restriction Warning] 
 Supply/Restriction warning
 [img: Medway Foundation Trust ONLY] 
 Medway Foundation Trust ONLY
 Guidelines 
 Links to guideline documents or relevant internet pages are displayed in each chapter.
 Antimicrobial prescribing 
 Antibiotic prescribing information for primary care use is found in the Antimicrobial Prescribing Guidance section which is located in the ICB Guidelines section of the formulary.
 Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells antimicrobial prescribing guidance can be found here 
 Alternatively, enter your search term in the search box as described above.
 Feedback 
 The NHS Kent and Medway Medicines Optimisation Team are always happy to receive any feedback on the formulary. Please contact the local Medicines optimisation Team, or acute Trust formulary pharmacist, if you wish to provide feedback in relation to the formulary.
 Site Disclaimer 
Every care has been taken in the compilation and publication of the content on this website. However, we will not be held responsible for any loss, damage or inconvenience caused as a result of any inaccuracy or error within these pages.
 External Links 
Links are provided for information and convenience only. NHS Kent and Medway cannot accept responsibility for the sites linked to, or the information found there. A link does not imply endorsement of a site; likewise, not linking to a particular site does not imply lack of endorsement. Links to NHS member organisation policies or guidelines may not be accessible from all locations. Some links to sites requiring a NHS network connection or password will not be accessible to the public.
 Virus Protection 
NHS Kent and Medway cannot accept any responsibility for any loss, disruption or damage to your data or your computer system that may occur while using material derived from this website.
 On Formulary Preferred
 On Formulary Second Line
 On Formulary Third Line
 Specialist Initiation
 Secondary Care Only
 Not Approved for Formulary
 Online Formulary by M.O.M. Systems 
 NICE guidance is available from https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance All rights reserved. Subject to Notice of rights .
 NICE guidance is prepared for the National Health Service in England. All NICE guidance is subject to regular review and may be updated or withdrawn. NICE accepts no responsibility for the use of its content in this product/publication.
 © Copyright 2026
 