
 Leicester, Leicestershire and Rutland
Area Prescribing Committee
 Formulary 
   [img: netFormulary] 
 [img: NHS] 
 Leicester, Leicestershire and Rutland
Area Prescribing Committee
 Medicines Formulary 
 Home 
 About 
 Admin 
 netFormulary 
 Chapters 
 Medicines A-Z 
 News 
 Mobile 
 Reports 
 Contact Us 
  Introduction 
 Welcome to The Leicestershire Medicines Formulary 
 [img: Logo] 
 [img: logo] 
 Useful Links 
 Drug Evaluations   
 LLR APC Guidelines   
  Traffic Lights 
 TAS Minutes 
 TAS Process (UHL) 
 Shared Care 
 Therapeutic Advisory Service (TAS) 
 Contact Us 
 Antimicrobial Guidelines 
 Request a New Drug 
 LLR APC Newsletter 
 UHL Intranet 
 News Feed 
 MHRA Drug Safety Update: June 2022 
 Please see the June DSU  which this month covers reduced vitamin B12 level associated with metformin, the Roche Accu-Chek Insight insulin pump and an update on COVID-19 vaccines and medicines. 
 Freestyle Libre 
 There have been a number of changes to the prescribing and supply of Freestyle Libre in UHL and across LLR. Please see the entry on the formulary and the LLR APC website for further information. 
 National Arrangements from NHS England 
 LLR Algorithm 
 Please note, these changes do not affect the eligible cohort of patients which are in the LLR position statement.
 MHRA Drug Safety Update May 2022 
 Please see the  May 2022 Drug Safety Update  which includes information on Denosumab in patients aged under 18, and an update on COVID-19 vaccines and medicines.
 MHRA Drug Safety Update March 2022 
 Please see the March 2022 Drug Safety Update which includes information on cladribine, amiodarone, metformin in pregnancy and an update on COVID-19 vaccines and medicines. 
 COVID-19 vaccines and medicines: updates for February 2022 
 Please see the Feb 2022 update for info on approval of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine (Nuvaxovid), COVID-19 antivirals in pregnancy & Summaries of Yellow Card reporting and other recent MHRA publications
 Shortage of Dulaglutide (Trulicity®) 
 Please see the LLR APC memo on the shortage of dulaglutide 3mg and 4mg pens. If required, advice can be sought from secondary care via Consultant Connect
 >>> more news 
 Search for fast access to information by drug name, class or condition 
 Access on your mobile at  http://leicestershire.formulary.co.uk/Mobile/default.asp 
 First and second line choices in each section are indicated. 
 Restricted choices are those restricted to prescribers e.g. specialist initiation, to condition or specific patient groups. 
 Links to UHL Guidance may not be functional at present if you are accessing outside of the Trust, however we are working on ways to resolve this. 
 A subscription is required to access the Injectable Medicines Guide, which can be accessed via the Medusa shortcut button on the front page of INsite and only available within the Trust. 
 This Formulary also applies to Alliance Care 
 Items specific to the prison service are noted as such  
 The Formulary supports all positive NICE Technology appraisals where these drugs are prescribed in the Leicestershire community.  Where there are numerous therapeutics options all recommended by NICE for the same condition, the formulary may express preference for one or more agents.  This applies only after the patient and prescriber have discussed all treatment options and only if they have no preference about which medicine they want to use.
 For information on antimicrobials see the Antimicrobial Website
 [img: line break] 
 [img: NetFormulary] 
 [img: Download net formulary from Apple IOS Store] 
  [img: Google Play net formulary] 
