                         Product Submission to the Therapeutic Advisory Service
                                        Meeting Date: 24th September
Minutes / TAS decision
Members noted that both strengths have shown non-inferiority to insulin glargine but have the advantage
of longer half-life allowing greater flexibility of dosing. Reduction in volume is possible using 200unit per
ml – this is a licensed product whereas U500 which it would replace is not. Dr Gregory had provided
detailed algorithms of place in therapy and review / stopping criteria.
Cost is significantly higher than glargine. Patent expiry of glargine due in 2014/15 Possibility of biosimilars
in production.

TAS decision: Supported for use in the specific patient groups in the algorithm supplied

                                    INFORMATION SUPPLIED BY REQUESTOR

Consultant              Dr Rob Gregory               Clinical Business Unit          Acute

Speciality              Metabolic medicine           Divisional Support for          Pending
                                                     Funding
Drug Name            Insulin degludec                Drug Name Proprietary           Tresiba®
Generic
Formulation and strength                             Solution for injection containing 100 units or 200 units of
                                                     insulin degludec per ml.
Typical Maintenance dose                             Approx 40 to 400 units per day

Clinical Indication: Treatment of diabetes mellitus in adults
Licensed Indication? Yes                             Licensed product? Yes

Are patients currently using this agent in           How many patients per year?
UHL as part of a clinical trial? No                  100 units per ml – 30 patients
                                                     200 units per ml – 30 initially then 20 per year.

                             INFORMATION SUPPLIED BY MEDICINES INFORMATION
SUMMARY

       New basal insulin with long half life available in higher strength formulation
       Phase III controlled trials have shown insulin degludec to be non-inferior to insulin glargine at controlling
        HbA1c and in patients with type 2 diabetes incidence rate of severe hypoglycaemia was reduced
       Safety assessed over 104 weeks was in line with other long acting insulin preparations
       Insulin degludec is more expensive than comparators glargine and detemir
       Long half life would allow greater dosing flexibility, and higher dose would allow lower volumes to be
        administered.
       Not approved by the FDA

COST                Product                           Manufacturer                    Dose          Cost **
COMPARISON *        Insulin degludec 100units/ml      Novo Nordisk Ltd                Variable      £72.00 for five 3ml
Per pack            (Tresiba®)                                                                      pre-filled pens
                    Insulin degludec 200units/ml      Novo Nordisk Ltd                Variable      £144.00 for five 3ml
                    (Tresiba®)                                                                      pre-filled pens
                    Insulin glargine 100units/ml      Sanofi                          Variable      £41.50 for five 3ml
                    (Lantus®)                                                                       pre-filled pens
                    Insulin detemir 100units/ml       Novo Nordisk Ltd                Variable      £42.00 for five 3ml
                    (Levemir®)                                                                      pre-filled pens
                    Humulin R 500units/ml             Eli Lilly USA (Unlicensed in    Variable      £250.74 for one
                                                      UK)                                           20ml vial
* MIMS 02/09/13
**Hospital prices may vary
                                        Not to be used for commercial purposes.
The information in this review is believed to be true and accurate. It is issued on the understanding that it is the best
                           available from the resources at our disposal at the time of issue.
Patent expiries of note: Insulin glargine expires in 2014

Current Status
TAS                                       Not previously reviewed
NICE                                      Not reviewed. Two evidence summaries on type 1 (ESNM24) and 2
                                          (ESNM25) diabetes.
SMC                                       Not supported 856/13
Pharmaceutical Risk assessment            Low

                                                    Literature Search

Background
Insulin degludec (Tresiba®) is new long-acting basal insulin for the treatment of diabetes mellitus in adults. It is
available in two strengths, 100 units per ml and 200 units per ml, making it the only licensed high strength insulin
                     1
available in the UK.

Current Use (Local)
The Leicestershire Medicines Formulary includes insulin glargine as first choice, and insulin detemir is reserved for
those patients unable to manage the insulin glargine device. Patients with type 1 diabetes should be offered an
intermediate acting insulin first line; however a long-acting insulin analogue may be preferred in adolescents. An
intermediate acting insulin is also considered first line for patients with type 2 diabetes requiring insulin. However
long-acting insulin analogues may be considered where the patient requires assistance to inject and use the insulin,
where hypoglycaemic episodes are affecting the patients lifestyle, where target HbA 1C is not reached with the
intermediate insulin or where the patient would otherwise need twice daily intermediate acting insulin in combination
                                     2
with oral glucose-lowering drugs. Some profoundly insulin resistant type 2 diabetics require large insulin doses to
achieve glycaemic control, however large volumes of the standard insulin can cause considerable pain and
discomfort on injection. One solution which has been used at UHL is the stronger unlicensed U500 insulin which
                           3
contains 500 units per ml.

Clinical Trials
(See Nice Evidence Summaries)

References
   1. Insulin degludec for diabetes mellitus. Drug and therapeutics bulletin. 2013; 51(7):78-81
   2. Leicestershire Medicines Formulary. Available at http://netformulary.xuhl-tr.nhs.uk/netformulary/ accessed
       03/09/2013
   3. Crasto W., Jarvis J., Hackett E. et al. Insulin U-500 in severe insulin resistance in type 2 diabetes mellitus.
       Postgraduate Medical Journal. 2009; 85 (1002): 219-222

Kelly Anderson, Formulary Support Pharmacist
Leicestershire Medicines Information Service
Date 03/09/13




Additional Information supplied by requestor

What drug(s) if any would Tresiba® 100untis/ml replace?
Lantus® (insulin glargine), or as an alternative to CSII (insulin pump).
What are the advantages of Tresiba® 100untis/ml over existing treatments?
Tresiba® (insulin degludec) is the only ultra-long-acting analogue insulin preparation. Its duration of action is >24
hours after a single injection, and it shows low day-to-day variability of glucose-lowering effect within-subjects. It
offers an option as once daily basal insulin in the following circumstances: Type 1 patients who fulfil NICE criteria for
a long-acting basal insulin, but who cannot achieve their target HbA1c because they experience nocturnal
hypoglycaemia or morning hyperglycaemia while taking Lantus® (insulin glargine). The only current alternative is a
trial of CSII (insulin pump) for patients with type 1 diabetes, an approach that is not acceptable to all eligible patients.
(SEE ALGORITHM) Patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes treated with a basal-bolus regimen based on once daily
Lantus® (insulin glargine) who work variable shift patterns that prevents them injecting the basal insulin at the same
time every day. The flexibility of dose interval offered by Tresiba® may deliver improved glucose control with variable
                                        Not to be used for commercial purposes.
The information in this review is believed to be true and accurate. It is issued on the understanding that it is the best
                           available from the resources at our disposal at the time of issue.
dose intervals (minimum 8 hours). This property offers an alternative basal insulin for patients with type 1 diabetes
whose failure to meet target HbA1c is in part attributable to forgetting to take a proportion of basal insulin doses.
Type 1 or type 2 patients who need the assistance of a District Nurse to inject insulin, but who have unacceptably
large variations in pre-injection capillary blood glucose concentration reflecting in part the variation in arrival time of
the nurse.

What drug(s) if any would Tresiba® 200units/ml replace?
U500 Humulin R®
What are the advantages of Tresiba® 200units/ml over existing treatments?
It is the only basal higher strength insulin preparation available in the UK. It is administered with a pen injector that is
calibrated for the strength of insulin – significantly reducing the risk associated with U500 Humulin R®. (Patients
currently use U100 insulin syringes which administer 5x the stated number of units per injection.) Shelf life of 8
weeks vs. 28 days. Potential for less wastage according to dose required. Procurement, prescribing, and dispensing
is standard rather than a unique process requiring additional pharmacy resources to administer for an unlicensed
drug. As an alternative to unlicensed U500 Humulin R® in treating insulin resistant patients who require >200 units
insulin per day to achieve adequate glycaemic control. This includes switching a proportion of those currently taking
doses of U500 Humulin R® at the lower end of the dose range, and thereafter starting insulin resistant patients on
this product before progressing to unlicensed U500 Humulin R®. Patients treated with U500 Humulin R® take it
before meals, but it contributes to their basal and prandial insulin requirements. Tresiba® (insulin degludec) U200
would be used to provide the basal requirement with prandial doses of standard (U100) strength short-acting insulin.

Is Tresiba® being used by other centres in the country? Please give specific details:
Insulin Degludec formulary inclusions – June 2013 (NB This list includes approvals for U100 and for U200 strength
preparations.)
Chelsea and Westminster Hospital NHS Foundation Trust: After insulin glargine for Type 1 patients experiencing
nocturnal hypoglycaemia on other basal insulins. Type 1 patients awaiting pump therapy. Type 2 patients on large
basal doses Type 2 patients on large basal doses who would benefit from an OD vs. BD dosing regimen. Type 2
patients on Humulin R 500units/mL who are still not achieving glycaemic control.
Hillingdon Hospital NHS Foundation Trust: Type 1 only in adults over 18years with eGFR over 30, not during
pregnancy. To be started in secondary care only in: Those poorly compliant with OD basal regime (shift, lifestyle
etc.). Those with frequent/severe hypoglycaemia (notably nocturnal) and for whom other insulin titration/intervention
(i.e. CSII) has already been tried or is inappropriate.
Walsall Healthcare NHS Trust Joint formulary via the APC. Specialist initiation only. Patient types not specified.
Worcestershire Acute Hospitals NHS Trust Joint formulary via the APC. Specialist initiation by consultant, DSN and
GPwSI. Patient types not specified.
West Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust Type 1 & Type 2 patients struggling to obtain glycaemic control with their basal
insulin on the current pathway (Insulin Glargine/Insulin Detemir) and/or at risk of hypoglycaemia, in particular
nocturnal hypoglycaemia. Patients who require high dose of basal insulin and would benefit from 200 units/mL high
dose formulation.
Basildon and Thurrock University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust Hard to control Type 1 patients Type 1 patients
pre-pump.
Bedford Hospital NHS Trust Luton and Dunstable Hospital NHS Foundation Trust Type 1 patients with unresolved
nocturnal hypoglycaemia, chaotic/psychiatric patients, allergy to Lantus/Levemir, uncontrolled at high doses. Amber
status for secondary care consultant initiation or primary care DSN
South Tyneside NHS Foundation Trust Patient types not specified Pan-Mersey Area Prescribing Committee This
APC covers: • Aintree University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust • St Helens and Knowsley Teaching Hospitals NHS
Trust • Warrington and Halton Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust • The Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen University
Hospitals NHS Trust Patients who are considered suitable for treatment with Tresiba can only be approved following
a meeting of the patient’s Consultant, GP and Prescribing Adviser from the Trust. On a named patient basis.
Bolton NHS Foundation Trust Uncontrolled Type 1 patients & high dose insulin glargine patients
Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Trust Degludec
supported for specialist recommendation only in: • poorly controlled type 1 patients • recurrent DKA • as a licensed
option to large doses of insulin instead of Humulin R 500units/mL • Type 1 patients who experience frequent
hypoglycaemic events (more than 3 in a year) • Type 2 larger patients requiring more than 80 units per shot
United Lincolnshire Hospitals NHS Trust Patients with Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus who have recurrent admissions with
diabetic ketoacidosis due to poor adherence. Patients with Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus with problematic or recurrent
nocturnal hypoglycaemia on other long-acting analogues and are not suitable for insulin pump therapy. A small
number of patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus with significant insulin resistance who might otherwise need large
doses of Humulin R 500 units/mL insulin



                                        Not to be used for commercial purposes.
The information in this review is believed to be true and accurate. It is issued on the understanding that it is the best
                           available from the resources at our disposal at the time of issue.
DOI: Members of the Department have at various times received speaker fees, sponsored places at meetings, and
educational support from NovoNordisk. Individual consultants serve or have served on its advisory board.

References provided:
   1.   Heller S, Buse J, Fisher M et al. Insulin degludec, an ultra-long-acting basal insulin, versus insulin glargine in basal-bolus
        treatment with mealtime insulin aspart in type 1 diabetes. Lancet. 2012; 379(985): 1489-1497
   2.   Ratner RE, Gough S, Mathieu C et al. Hypoglycaemia risk with insulin degludec compared with insulin glargine in type 2
        and type 1 diabetes: a pre-planned meta-analysis of Phase 3 trials. Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism, 2012 doi:
        10.1111/dom.12032.

Pharmacoeconomic category
B – New Treatment more effective but more expensive than comparable therapy.




                                        Not to be used for commercial purposes.
The information in this review is believed to be true and accurate. It is issued on the understanding that it is the best
                           available from the resources at our disposal at the time of issue.
Supporting Information – Insulin Degludec

    1. Algorithm for prescription of 100 unit per ml
    2. Algorithm for prescription of 200 unit per ml
    3. Proposed SCA 200 unit per ml

    1. Algorithm for prescription of 100 unit per ml

This applies to patients aged over 18 years with type 1 diabetes who are taking basal-bolus insulin regimen.

Q1 Is the patient using Lantus® (insulin glargine) as basal insulin?
N – This algorithm does not apply Y – Go to Q2

Q2 Has the patient attended a DAFNE course or received instruction in carbohydrate counting and insulin dose
adjustment?
Y – Go to Q3 N – Arrange for the patient to receive this before proceeding.

Q3 Does the patient fulfil NICE criteria for using long-acting analogue insulin*?
N – The algorithm does not apply Y – Go to Q4

Q4 Does the patient have satisfactory diabetes control – ie acceptable HbA1c, infrequent hypoglycaemia?
Y – The algorithm does not apply N – Go to Q5

Q5 Has the patient tried CSII (insulin pump) treatment but has either stopped it or wishes to stop it?
Y – Offer a trial of Tresiba® (insulin degludec). Go to review N – Go to Q6

Q6 Does the patient want a trial of CSII (insulin pump) treatment?
Y –Arrange this N – Offer a trial of Tresiba® (insulin degludec). Go to review.

Review
Since Tresiba® (insulin degludec) is more expensive than Lantus® (insulin glargine) it is important to establish that it
is delivering the improvement required of it.

After a 3 month trial the specialist team will assess the response to Tresiba® and decide whether to ask the GP to
prescribe under the shared care agreement or to stop it.

If the reason for using it was to reduce nocturnal hypoglycaemia, the frequency and severity of hypoglycaemia
must be documented before starting and after 3 months. If there has been no significant improvement then the
Tresiba® should be stopped.

If the reason for prescribing it was to address variably high fasting glucose concentrations, the patient’s glucose log
(preferably on a memory meter) before and after 3 months should be scrutinised and if there has been no
significant improvement then the Tresiba® should be stopped.

If failure to meet HbA1c target was part of the rationale to start Tresiba®, then a repeat measurement after 3
months should be compared with the initial value and a failure to improve should normally result in stopping
Tresiba®.




                                        Not to be used for commercial purposes.
The information in this review is believed to be true and accurate. It is issued on the understanding that it is the best
                           available from the resources at our disposal at the time of issue.
    2. Algorithm for assessment of suitability for treatment with Tresiba® (insulin degludec) 200 units/mL

    Q1. Is the patient 18 years or above?
    N – This algorithm does not apply Y – Go to Q2

    Q2. Does the patient have diabetes?
    N – This algorithm does not apply Y – Go to Q3

    Q3 Is the patient currently taking insulin?
    N – This algorithm does not apply Y – Go to Q4

    Q4 Is the patient taking more than 200 units per day?
    N – This algorithm does not apply Y – Go to Q5

    Q5 Does the patient show signs of insulin resistance – acanthosis nigricans and/or multiple skin tags?
    N – Check patient’s compliance with insulin doses prescribed. This algorithm may not apply.
    Y – The patient is insulin resistant – go to Q6

    Q6 Is the patient taking standard strength (U100) insulin?
    Y – Go to Q7 N.- Go to Q9

    Q7 – Does the patient have acceptable diabetes control on their current treatment regimen?
    Y – A change of treatment is probably not indicated at the moment. N – Go to Q8

    Q8 – Have all reasonable attempts been made to address the patient’s insulin resistance (modifications to diet,
    physical activity, medication including where appropriate GLP1 mimetics, pioglitazone and bariatric surgery)?
    N – Consider these options before returning to Q8.
    Y – The patient is probably eligible for a trial of Tresiba® (insulin degludec) 200 units/mL. Go to ‘review’.

    Q9 Is the patient taking U500 Humulin R® insulin?
    N – This algorithm does not apply Y – Go to Q10

    Q10 Is the patient taking more than 480 units per day?
    Y – The dose is high enough to suggest that a trial of Tresiba® (insulin degludec) 200 units/mL is unlikely to be
    beneficial.
    N - The patient is probably eligible for a trial of Tresiba® (insulin degludec) 200 units/mL. Go to ‘review’.

    Review
    Treatment with Tresiba® (insulin degludec) 200 units/mL is considerably more expensive dose-for-dose than
    treatment with standard strength (U100) insulins, and even more expensive than treatment with unlicensed
    U500 Humulin R® insulin. Patients should be monitored carefully during the first 3 months of treatment to
    assess whether the trial of treatment has been successful, and whether continued prescribing under a shared
    care agreement is justified. Criteria for success will be improvement in diabetes control as measured by HbA1c,
    stability of diabetes control as indicated by acceptable frequency and severity of hypoglycaemia, and absence
    of side-effects. Weight gain is not a stop criterion.
    3. Tresiba® (insulin degludec) U200 Shared Care Guideline (draft)

Tresiba® (insulin degludec) U200 for patients with severe insulin resistance



                                        Not to be used for commercial purposes.
The information in this review is believed to be true and accurate. It is issued on the understanding that it is the best
                           available from the resources at our disposal at the time of issue.
Scope
       Prescribing by General Practitioners
Purpose
       To provide advice on the safe prescribing of Tresiba® U200 insulin for patients with severe insulin
       resistance.
Introduction
       In the UK insulin is usually formulated at a concentration of 100 units per ml. Tresiba® U200 insulin is a
       concentrated formulation of insulin (200 units per ml).

        Patients with severe insulin resistance may have significantly higher insulin dose requirements than other
        patients with diabetes. The insulin dose can often reach more than 200 and up to 2000 units per day. Each
        insulin dose then requires two or three injections as the maximum insulin that can be injected in one
        injection is about 60-80 units. Larger volumes injected subcutaneously may affect the pharmacokinetics of
        the insulin. Large volume and multiple injections can also cause discomfort, leading to poor compliance
        and poor glycaemic control. Hitherto the only available higher strength insulin has been U500 Humulin R®
        (500 units/mL), which is only available in 20 ml vials, and has to be administered using standard U100
        insulin syringes, calibrated to deliver one fifth of the true dose. This is unsatisfactory at best, and
        dangerous at worst.

        Tresiba® U200 insulin should be considered for patients who require large doses of insulin (usually above
        200 units per day), as this can reduce the volume of injected insulin, improve compliance, and can lead to
        improvements in glycaemic control by improvement in absorption.

Shared care
       Sharing of care assumes communication between the specialist, GP and the patient. The intention to share
       care should be explained to the patient and accepted by them. Patients are under regular follow-up and
       this provides an opportunity to discuss drug therapy. The doctor who prescribes the medication has the
       clinical responsibility for the drug and the consequences of its use.

Shared care responsibilities
5.1    Consultant
       The decision to start Tresiba® U200 insulin will be made by a Consultant Diabetologist providing specialist
       care. A copy of the shared care guideline will be sent to the GP. If the GP has any queries about the
       prescribing of Tresiba® U200, they should contact the relevant hospital specialist as soon as possible.




                                        Not to be used for commercial purposes.
The information in this review is believed to be true and accurate. It is issued on the understanding that it is the best
                           available from the resources at our disposal at the time of issue.
          The consultant and the specialist team will:
         Educate the patient fully regarding safe administration, dosing schedule and storage of Tresiba® U200
          insulin, and provide guidance to the patient on appropriate blood glucose monitoring.
         Provide the patient with written information regarding safe administration, dosing schedule and storage of
          Tresiba® U200 insulin and guidance in dealing with hypoglycaemia, concurrent illnesses and hospital
          admission.
         Send a letter to the GP requesting shared care for this patient.
         Provide specialist clinic follow-up on a regular basis.
         Send a letter to the GP after each clinic attendance documenting current dose and most recent blood
          results.
         Evaluate any reported adverse effects by GP or patient.
         Advise GP on review, duration or discontinuation of treatment with Tresiba® U200 insulin where necessary.
         Inform GP of patients who do not attend clinic appointments.
         Ensure that backup advice for the patient and GP is available.

Hospital Pharmacy
    Provide initial supplies of Tresiba® U200 for a maximum of 3 months.


5.2       General Practitioner
         Monitor patient’s overall health and well being.
         Prescribe the Tresiba® U200 insulin.
         Prescribe blood glucose monitoring strips as required.
         Report any adverse events to the hospital specialist, where appropriate.

5.3       Patient
         Discuss potential benefits and side effects of treatment with the specialist and GP, to identify whether they
          have a clear picture of these from the specialist and to raise any queries.
         Check that the specialists have provided a patient-held record or information sheet to alert other clinical
          staff to the treatment they are receiving.
         Share any concerns they have in relation to treatment with Tresiba® U200 insulin.
         Report any adverse effects to their specialist or GP whilst taking Tresiba® U200 insulin.
         Report to the specialist or GP if they do not have a clear understanding of their treatment.
         Participate in the monitoring of blood glucose, to assist health professionals to provide effective, safe,
          appropriate treatment.
         Inform relevant health professionals of the use of Tresiba® U200 insulin at every contact and during any
          admission to hospital.

Dose and administration
       Tresiba® U200 insulin is a long-acting insulin analogue synthesized by rDNA technology in Saccharomyces
       cerevisiae. It is a basal insulin for once daily administration, preferably at the same time each day.

          It binds specifically to the human insulin receptor and has the same actions as human insulin.

          Upon subcutaneous injection it forms soluble multi-hexamers resulting in a depot from which insulin
          degludec is continuously and slowly absorbed into the circulation leading to a flat and stable glucose
          lowering effect over 24 hours. The duration of action is >42 hours in the therapeutic dose range. Steady
          state will occur after 2-3 days of administration.

          Tresiba® U200 insulin is for subcutaneous injection only. It must not be used intravenously or
          intramuscularly, or in insulin infusion pumps.

                                        Not to be used for commercial purposes.
The information in this review is believed to be true and accurate. It is issued on the understanding that it is the best
                           available from the resources at our disposal at the time of issue.
       Tresiba® U200 insulin comes in a pre-filled pen (FlexTouch) designed to be used with NovoFine or
       NovoTwist needles. The pen delivers 2-160 units per injection, in steps of 2 units. The dose counter shows
       the number of units and no dose conversion is required.

       Tresiba® U200 insulin will be commenced by specialist clinic at University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust.
       The Clinic will provide the prescriptions for the first three months and the GP will provide prescriptions
       thereafter. The starting dose will be decided on the basis of the doses of insulin already being taken by the
       patient. This will include patients currently taking high doses of 100 units/mL insulin preparations, and
       selected patients taking Humulin R® U500 insulin (500 units/mL), an unlicensed medication in the UK. The
       doses will be titrated according to the regular blood glucose monitoring performed by the patient and by
       the presence/absence of hypoglycaemia. The patient will be stabilized on Tresiba® U200 insulin by the
       specialist team.

       The patient will be given education regarding the safe storage and administration of the insulin by the
       specialist team.

       The patient will be issued with a treatment card with details of their insulin and doses and instructions to
       be followed in case of illness, emergency, hypoglycaemia or hospital admission.



Adverse Effects
       Hypoglycaemia

       As with all insulins, the most frequent adverse event is hypoglycaemia. As with all basal insulin products,
       the prolonged effect of Tresiba® U200 may delay recovery from hypoglycaemia.

       Symptoms of mild to moderate hypoglycaemia may occur suddenly and can include:
       • sweating • drowsiness
       • dizziness • sleep disturbances
       • palpitations • anxiety
       • tremor • blurred vision
       • hunger • slurred speech
       • restlessness • depressed mood
       • tingling in the hands, feet, lips, or tongue • irritability
       • light headedness • abnormal behaviour
       • inability to concentrate • unsteady movement
       • headache • personality changes


       Signs of severe hypoglycaemia can include:
       • disorientation • seizures
       • unconsciousness • coma
       • death

       Early warning symptoms of hypoglycaemia may be different or less pronounced under certain conditions,
       such as long duration of diabetes, autonomic diabetic neuropathy, use of medications such as beta
       blockers, changing insulin preparations, or intensified control of diabetes. Without recognition of early
       warning symptoms, the patient may not be able to take steps to avoid more serious hypoglycaemia.
       Patients who experience hypoglycaemia without early warning symptoms should monitor their blood
       glucose more frequently, especially prior to activities such as driving.

                                        Not to be used for commercial purposes.
The information in this review is believed to be true and accurate. It is issued on the understanding that it is the best
                           available from the resources at our disposal at the time of issue.
       Mild to moderate hypoglycaemia may be treated by eating foods or taking drinks that contain sugar.
       Patients should always carry a quick source of sugar, such as fruit juice, non-diet carbohydrate-containing
       drinks or glucose tablets.

       The patient will receive education by the specialist team regarding safe detection and management of
       hypoglycaemia.

       Hypokalaemia
       Insulin stimulates potassium movement into the cells, possibly leading to hypokalaemia, which if untreated
       may cause respiratory paralysis, ventricular arrhythmia, and death. Use caution in patients who may be at
       risk of hypokalaemia (e.g., patients using potassium-lowering medication e.g. thiazide diuretics).

       Hypersensitivity and Allergic Reactions
       Severe, life-threatening, generalized allergy, including anaphylaxis, can occur with insulin products, and this
       would be expected to apply to Tresiba® U200 insulin. Localized reactions and generalized myalgias have
       been reported with the use of metacresol as an injectable excipient.

       Local Allergy —Patients occasionally experience erythema, local oedema, and pruritus at the site of
       injection. This condition usually is self-limiting. In some instances, this condition may be related to factors
       other than insulin, such as irritants in the skin cleansing agent or poor injection technique.

       Weight gain
       Weight gain can occur with some insulin therapies and has been attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin
       and the decrease in glycosuria.

       Peripheral Oedema
       Insulin may cause sodium retention and oedema, particularly if previously poor metabolic control is
       improved by intensified insulin therapy.

       Hyperglycaemia, Diabetic Ketoacidosis, and Hyperosmolar Non-Ketotic Syndrome
       Hyperglycaemia, diabetic ketoacidosis, or hyperosmolar coma may rarely develop if the patient takes less
       Tresiba® U200 insulin than needed to control blood glucose levels. This could be due to increases in insulin
       demand during illness or infection, neglect of diet, omission or improper administration of prescribed
       insulin doses or use of drugs that affect glucose metabolism or insulin sensitivity. Early signs of diabetic
       ketoacidosis include glycosuria and ketonuria. Polydipsia, polyuria, loss of appetite, fatigue, dry skin,
       abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting and compensatory tachypnoea come on gradually, usually over a
       period of some hours or days, in conjunction with hyperglycaemia and ketonaemia. Severe sustained
       hyperglycaemia may result in hyperosmolar coma or death.

       Renal or Hepatic Impairment
       Frequent glucose monitoring and insulin dose reduction may be required in patients with renal or hepatic
       impairment.

       See the Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC) for further information on adverse events.


Monitoring Standards
 Blood glucose monitoring                        By the patient and reviewed by the specialist team and the GP
 HbA1c/ blood glucose/U&E/eGFR lipid             Will be measured by hospital clinic initially – this may pass to
 profile/FBC                                     the GP but only after consultation between the hospital
                                                 specialist and the GP
                                        Not to be used for commercial purposes.
The information in this review is believed to be true and accurate. It is issued on the understanding that it is the best
                           available from the resources at our disposal at the time of issue.
 The specialist team will inform GPs and the patients of the frequency of blood glucose monitoring and HBA1c and
 other blood testing as required.

Actions to take in the event of abnormal test results/symptoms
        If any unusual or serious adverse effect is reported please contact the specialist team for further advice.



Contact numbers for advice and support
         Specialist                           Post                           Telephone
Specialist on call via
Hospital Switchboard
Dr Robert Gregory             Consultant                            0116 2588017




    4.




                                        Not to be used for commercial purposes.
The information in this review is believed to be true and accurate. It is issued on the understanding that it is the best
                           available from the resources at our disposal at the time of issue.
