
 Insulin Glargine U 300 - Lancashire and South Cumbria Medicines Management Group 
 Skip to main content 
 Help with accessibility 
 Skip to main navigation 
 [img: Lancashire and South Cumbria Medicines Management Group logo. Return to homepage] Lancashire and South Cumbria Medicines Management Group 
 Supported by 
 [img: Supported by Midlands and Lancashire Commissioning Support Unit] Supported by Midlands and Lancashire Commissioning Support Unit 
 Toggle navigation 
 Lancashire and South Cumbria Medicines Management Group 
 Home 
 About 
 Terms of Reference 
 Membership 
 Decision-Making Process 
 Referral Criteria 
 Colour Classification 
 LSCMMG Workplan 
 Useful Links 
 Downloads 
 Forms 
 Minutes and Meetings 
 Contact Us 
 Formulary 
 LSC PCF 
 Medicines 
 High Cost Drugs 
 Prescribing Guidance 
 Clinical Guidelines 
 Information Leaflets 
 Position Statements 
 Shared-care Guidelines 
 All Guidance 
 LSCMMG Endorsed Secondary Care Guidelines 
 Clinical Resources 
 Patient Resources 
 Chronic Pain Patient Resources 
 Chronic Pain Patient Resources: Managing Opioid Medication 
 Suicide Prevention Resources 
 Prescriber Resources 
 Chronic Pain Prescriber Resources 
 Vitamin D Prescriber Resources 
 LSC Resources 
 Patient Group Directions (PGDs) 
 Lancashire and South Cumbria Critical Care Medicines Information 
 LSC Respiratory Resources 
 LSC CPDIG Policies 
 LSC ICS Proxy ordering of medication in Care Homes 
 Greener NHS 
 News 
 Breadcrumb
 In this section
 Home 
 Insulin Glargine U 300
 Medicine Recommendations 
 Insulin Glargine U 300
 Indication
 Type 1 diabetes mellitus 
 Amber level 0
 Brand:
 Toujeo®
 Nice TA:
 Commissioning responsibility:
 CCG
 PbR excluded:
 No
 BNF chapter:
 Endocrine system 
 Background
 Insulin glargine 300 units/mL (Toujeo®) is recommended as an option in adults with type 1 diabetes mellitus ( T1DM ) only in accordance with the recommendations in  NICE   NG17  and in those who experience an unacceptable frequency and/or severity of nocturnal hypoglycaemia on attempting to achieve better glycaemic control during treatment with first-line long-acting insulin analogues; or as a once daily insulin therapy for patients who require assistance with administering injections. 
 NICE guideline NG17: Type 1 diabetes in adults: diagnosis and management 
 Recommendation
 LSCMMG Recommendation:
 Amber level 0
 Reason for decision:
 Suitable for initiation in primary care in line with restrictions
 Supporting documents:
 Insulin Glargine U300 T1DM New Medicine Review
 Insulin Toujeo Information Sheet And Good Practice Guide Version 1.2
 Decisions of Lancashire local decision making groups
 BwD 
 BP 
 CSR 
 EL 
 FW 
 GP 
 MB 
 WL 
 Amber 0 
 Amber 0 
 Amber 0 
 Amber 0 
 Amber 0 
 Amber 0 
 Amber 0 
 Amber 0 
 What do the colours mean? 
 Last Updated: 01 - Mar - 2016 
 Filter 
 × 
 Key to formulary
 Green medicines
 Green 
 Appropriate for initiation and ongoing prescribing in both primary and secondary care.
 Generally, little or no routine drug monitoring is required.
 Green (restricted) 
 Appropriate for initiation and ongoing prescribing in both primary and secondary care provided:
 Additional criteria specific to the medicine or device are met, or
 The medicine or device is used following the failure of other therapies as defined by the relevant LSCMMG pathway.
 Generally, little or no routine drug monitoring is required.
 Amber medicines
 Amber 0 
 Suitable for prescribing in primary care following recommendation or initiation by a specialist.
 Little or no specific monitoring required.
 Patient may need a regular review, but this would not exceed that required for other medicines routinely prescribed in primary care.
 Brief prescribing document or information sheet may be required.
 Primary care prescribers must be familiar with the drug to take on prescribing responsibility or must get the required information.
 When recommending or handing over care, specialists should ask primary care prescribers to take over prescribing responsibility, and should give enough information about the indication, dose, monitoring requirements, use outside product licence and any necessary dose adjustments to allow them to confidently prescribe.
 Amber 1 - Amber level 1 (with shared care)
 Suitable for prescribing in primary care following recommendation or initiation by a specialist.
 Minimal monitoring required.
 Patient may need a regular review, but this would not exceed that required for other medicines routinely prescribed in primary care.
 Full prior agreement about patient’s on-going care must be reached under the shared care agreement.
 Primary care prescribers are advised not to take on prescribing of these medicines unless they have been adequately informed by letter of their responsibilities with regards monitoring, side effects and interactions and are happy to take on the prescribing responsibility. A copy of locally approved shared care guidelines should accompany this letter which outlines these responsibilities. Primary care prescribers should then tell secondary care of their intentions as soon as possible by letter so that arrangements can be made for the transfer of care.
 Amber 2 - Amber level 2 (with shared care and enhanced service)
 Initiated by specialist and transferred to primary care following a successful initiation period.
 Significant monitoring required on an on-going basis.
 Full prior agreement about patient’s on-going care must be reached under the shared care agreement.
 Suitable for enhanced service.
 These medicines are considered suitable for GP prescribing following specialist initiation of therapy, as per shared care document which will be sent out with the request to prescribe, with on-going communication between the primary care prescriber and specialist. Amber Level 2 medicines require significant monitoring for which an enhanced service may be suitable. (Subject to local commissioning agreements).
 Red medicines
 Red 
 Medicine is supplied by the hospital for the duration of the treatment course.
 Primary care initiation or continuation of treatment is not recommended unless exceptional circumstances such as specialist GP.
 Red medicines are those where primary care prescribing is not recommended. These treatments should be initiated by specialists only and prescribing retained within secondary care. They require specialist knowledge, intensive monitoring, specific dose adjustments or further evaluation in use. If however, a primary care prescriber has particular specialist knowledge or experience of prescribing a particular drug for a particular patient it would not always be appropriate for them to expect to transfer that prescribing responsibility back to secondary care. There should be a specific reason and a specific risk agreement, protocol and service set up to support this.
 Primary care prescribers may prescribe RED medicines in exceptional circumstances to patients to ensure continuity of supply while arrangements are made to obtain on going supplies from secondary care.
 Grey medicines
 Grey 
 Medicines which have not yet been reviewed or are under the review process.
 GPs and specialists are recommended not to prescribe these drugs.
 This category includes drugs where funding has not yet been agreed.
 Grey N.P. - Grey not prioritised
 Low priority for review.
 GPs and specialists are recommended not to prescribe these drugs and to submit an application to LSCMMG if they wish to use.
 Black medicines
 Black 
 NOT recommended for use by the NHS in Lancashire.
 Includes medicines that NICE has not recommended for use and terminated technology appraisals, unless there is a local need.
 This category includes medicines for which there is insufficient evidence of their effectiveness.
 Blue medicines
 Blue 
 Refer to the Lancashire & South Cumbria Medicines Management Group Guidelines
 .
 Close 
 Privacy Policy |
 Terms & Conditions |
 Accessibility |
 © Lancashire and South Cumbria Medicines Management Group, 2024
 Designed & Developed by MLCSU 
 Designed & Developed by MLCSU 
 