
 South East London Joint Medicines Formulary Formulary 
   [img: netFormulary] 
 [img: NHS] 
 South East London Joint Medicines Formulary 
 Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust
Kings College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust
Lewisham and Greenwich NHS Trust 
 Home 
 About 
 Admin 
 netFormulary 
 Chapters 
 Medicines A-Z 
 News 
 Mobile 
 Reports 
 Contact Us 
  Introduction 
Welcome to the formulary 
 [img: Logo] 
 [img: logo] 
 Useful Links 
 Click here for the SE London Paediatric Formulary 
   Login details are available from your borough Medicines Optimisation Team.  App available - search "paediatric formulary" on App stores 
 Single National Formulary - new formulary categories 
 SE London Integrated Medicines Optimisation Committee Homepage 
 Resources for promoting self-management of minor ailments with OTC medicines 
  Specialist Pharmacy Service Homepage 
 NICE technology appraisals 
 OpenPrescribing Homepage 
 Medicines A to Z Homepage 
 News Feed 
 July 26 - MHRA Drug Safety Update: Domperidone: new contraindication in patients with phaeochromocytoma due to the risk of severe hypertension 
 July 26 - MHRA Drug Safety Update: Botulinum toxin type A products: updated warnings regarding risk of iatrogenic botulism 
 May 26 - SE London IMOC recommendation:  Intranasal adrenaline (EURneffy® 2mg nasal spray) for emergency treatment of anaphylaxis in adults and children 
 May 26 - SE London IMOC recommendation:  Pentoxifylline 400mg modified release tablets for recurrent aphthous stomatitis (off-label use) 
 June 26 - SE London IMOC recommendation: Acetazolamide immediate release tablets and topiramate tablets for idiopathic intracranial hypertension (off-label) 
 June 26 - MHRA Drug Safety Update:   ACE-inhibitors: Be aware of the distinction between bradykinin- and histamine-mediated angioedema, as treatment strategies differ significantly 
 >>> more news 
 Welcome to the South East London Joint Medicines Formulary 
 This formulary is a prescribing list that includes the names of medicines approved by the Joint Formulary Committee (JFC) and Integrated Medicines Optimisation Committee (IMOC) for use across the South East London Integrated Care System:
 Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust (GSTFT)
 King’s College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust (KCH)
 Lewisham and Greenwich NHS Trust (LGT)
 South East London Clinical Integrated Care System (ICS)
 Availability in each Trust is indicated within each drug entry. Infrequently used formulary products may need to be ordered if not routinely stocked.
 This formulary does not contain the information necessary for prescribing, dispensing or administration. It should be used in conjunction with the British National Formulary (BNF), supplemented as necessary from specialist publications and manufacturers’ Summaries of Product Characteristics (SPC), local guidelines and national guidelines. It is intended for use by prescribers who have the necessary training and experience to interpret the information it provides.
 This resource also does not list details of all the antidotes or treatments used for poisoning or acute overdose - Refer to TOXBASE and the National Poisons Information Service for guidance and treatment advice.
 Supplementary information is available from local Medicines Information/Formulary services: 
 Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust (Medicines Information extensions 83849, 83855, 88750, email: gstt.mymedicines@nhs.net ; Formulary extension 83854 - outside line 020 7188 3854) 
 King’s College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust (extension 30355) 
 Lewisham and Greenwich NHS Trust (Medicines Information 020 8836 4900; Formulary 020 8836 4847). 
 Prescribing of Branded and Generic Medication
 Prescribing medicines by generic name is generally preferred but there are some circumstances when brand-name prescribing is warranted, in line with the British National Formulary (BNF) Guidance on Prescribing and Specialist Pharmacy Service (SPS) recommendations. South East London Integrated Care System (SEL ICS) does not support the routine prescribing of branded generic medication to generate cost savings. See South East London Guidance on Prescribing of Branded and Generic Medication  for further information. 
 Unlicensed medicines/uses 
 Unlicensed medicines or uses of licensed products that fall outside the marketing authorisation have been included for use in specific clinical settings, where these have been approve d for formulary inclusion. Prescribers must take full responsibility for prescribing such products and comply with the Unlicensed Medicines Policy as approved at individual Trust level. Specials, like all unlicensed medicines, should only be prescribed when there is no available licensed medicine which fully meets the patient’s special clinical needs. For further information, see South East London guidance on alternatives to prescribing unlicensed Specials in primary care. 
 The Joint Medicines Formulary is the approved list of treatments in South East London for use in adults.  IMOC recommendations pertaining to paediatric treatments are not listed in the Joint Medicines Formulary, however the comprehensive list of treatments available in paediatrics are detailed in the  SE London Paediatric Medicines Formulary .   
 Contact Details for Hospital Paediatric Pharmacy Departments: 
 Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust, Evelina London Children’s Pharmacy Team
 Tel: 020 7188 3003
 Email: LetsTalkMedicines@gstt.nhs.uk 
 Royal Brompton Hospital Paediatric Pharmacy Team (part of GSTT)
 Email:   rbh-tr.paediatricpharmacy@nhs.net 
 Kings College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust Women’s and Children’s Pharmacy Team
 Tel: 020 3299 5723 (Denmark Hill)
 Tel:  01689 864013 (PRUH)
 Email: kch-tr.WomenandChildrenPharmacyTeam@nhs.net 
 Lewisham and Greenwich (Lewisham and Queen Elizabeth) Medicines Information Pharmacy Team
 Tel:  020 8836 4900
 Email:   LG.QE-Medinfo@nhs.net 
 Disclaimer 
 Every attempt has been made to ensure that the information in this formulary is correct, but errors may have occurred. Where there is doubt, information should be verified against relevant specialist publications 
 [img: line break] 
 [img: NetFormulary] 
 This website uses cookies to store an organisational reference to the formulary to enhance site performance. We also use cookies to help analyse how visitors use this site. Analytics uses "cookies", which are small text files placed on your computer, to collect standard internet log information and visitor behaviour information in an anonymous form. This information is then processed to compile statistical reports on website activity. We will not associate any data gathered from this site with any personally identifiable information from any source. Privacy Policy .
 Accept 
