Dumfries & Galloway
  Joint Formulary
        2025




    PRESCRIBE GENERICALLY
       WHERE POSSIBLE




                            1
  Aide Memoire for ALL PRESCRIBERS in NHS Dumfries and Galloway of our preferred drug choices/brands
  in line with the 2025 formulary

  This is a quick alphabetical reference guide to some of the most commonly prescribed drugs in NHS
  Dumfries and Galloway. Please refer to the full version of the formulary for further advice. Doses are only
  stated where relevant to a switch.

         Thinking of…….                                       Prescribe ……………….
ACE Inhibitor                                Ramipril CAPSULES
AIR (Anti-inflamatory Reliever Therapy)      Symbicort® DPI (dosed according to age)
Alogliptin                                   Sitagliptin
ARB                                          Candesartan
Asacol MR® (mesalazine)400mg/800mg           Octasa® 400mg (to a max of 2.4g daily for maintenance)
                                             Octasa® 800mg (to a max of 4.8g daily treatment dose)
Barrier Cream                                Medi Derma – S Barrier Cream or Conotrane® cream
Beta blocker                                 Bisoprolol or carvedilol
Calcium supplements (plus Vit D)             Accrete D3® ; TheiCal® tablets (dissolves on the tongue where patient has
                                             swallowing difficulties)
Co-codamol 12.8/500 or 15/500                Co-codamol 30/500 tablets or prescribe codeine 15mg and paracetamol
                                             separately. Alternatively can prescribe one co-
                                             codamol 30/500 and one paracetamol
Diclofenac 1% gel/Voltarol® gel              Ibuprofen 5% gel
Diltiazem MR                                 Adizem XL® or Zemtard XL®
Doxazosin MR                                 Doxazosin
                                                           st             nd
DOAC (Direct Acting Oral Anticoagulant)      Apixaban (1 ), Edoxaban (2 – where once daily dosing required)
Durogesic®/Fentanyl patches                  Consider Morphine* MR (Zomorph® capsules). Prescribe Opiodur® patches
                                             if fentanyl needed.
E45                                          Epimax Moisturising cream®
Effervescent analgesia (co-codamol 8/500,    Non-soluble analgesia where possible Effervescent preparations are
30/500 and paracetamol 500mg)                high in salt content.
Eumovate/Eumovate RD                         Audovate/Audovate RD
Ferrous Preparations                         Ferrous sulphate 200mg tablets or Ferrous fumarate 210mg tablets once daily
Gaviscon® liquid                             Peptac® liquid or Gaviscon Double Action Mint® pack size 500ml
Ketoconazole shampoo                         Nizoral®
LMWH                                         Dalteparin
Losec Mups® or omeprazole liquid             Lansoprazole oro dispersible tablets
MART (Maintenance and Reliever Therapy)      Fobumix Easyhaler® (DPI), Luforbec® (MDI) or Bibecfo® (MDI)
Melatonin                                    Melatonin 2mg MR or Melatonin 3mg immediate release tablets
Mucolytic (acetylcyteine)                    Prescribe as NACYS® effervescent tablets
NSAID or COX II inhibitors                   Ibuprofen or naproxen. NSAIDs and COXII inhibitors are associated with an
                                             increased risk of thrombotic events, GI bleeds and acute kidney injury.
                                             Prescribe at lowest dose and shortest duration.
Oral Contraceptive Pill                      Levest® 150/30, Rigevidon®
Oxycodone MR/NR                              Oxypro® tabs/Shortec® caps
Paracetamol IV                               Paracetamol tablets, liquid
PPIs                                         Omeprazole lansoprazole CAPSULES
                                             Omeprazole 40mg as 2x20mg capsules
Prednisolone EC tablets or Prednisolone 25mg Prednisolone Plain 5mg tablets
tablets
Ranitidine                                   Famotidine
Risedronate                                  Alendronate
SGLT2i                                       Dapagliflozin
Statin for Primary Prevention                Atorvastatin 20mg
Tramadol                                     Avoid tramadol (non-formulary). Where opioid indicated, consider codeine or
                                             morphine
Triptan                                      Sumatriptan
Vagifem®/Vagirux®                            Generic estradiol 10mcg pessary
Vaginal Moisturiser                           Hyalosfemme® Sylk® VM YES® VM
Vitamin D                                    Valupak® 1000iu/daily or, Stexerol ® 25000iu/once a month


          NB Check individual BNF profiles for licensed drug indications, contra-indications and other relevant information
       * Please refer to palliative care guidelines as oxycodone may be considered first choice under specific circumstances




                                                                                                                               2
                                   Contents
Introduction                               `

Guide
Chapters
1.      Gastro-intestinal
        system
2.      Cardiovascular
        system
3.      Respiratory system
4.      Central nervous
        system
5.      Infections (not included guidance is being updated and will be available on-line)
6.      Endocrine system
7.      Obstetrics, gynaecology and urinary-tract disorders
8.      Malignant disease and Immunosuppression
9.      Nutrition and blood (+sip feeds)
10.     Musculoskeletal and joint diseases
11.     Eyes
12.     Ear, nose and oropharynx
13.     Skin
14.     Immunological Products and Vaccines




                                                                                        3
Introduction
The NHS Dumfries & Galloway Joint Formulary has involved collaboration across primary and
secondary care. The recommendations seek to enable a seamless approach to care epitomised by
a single healthcare provider namely NHS Dumfries & Galloway. By listing medicines, and offering
prescribing notes and treatment guidance, it is hoped that the joint formulary will guide prescribers
in meeting the needs of the majority of patients, wherever they are receiving treatment in NHS
D&G.
The formulary offers guidance on the first and second choice drugs across the complete range of
therapeutic areas. Prescribing by following guidance in a formulary is one of the many strategies
designed to maximise health gain from our prescribing budget. Its place is to facilitate evidence-
based cost-effective prescribing across primary and secondary care.


The Scottish Medicines Consortium (SMC) provides advice to Scottish NHS Boards and their Area
Drug and Therapeutics Committees (ADTC) about the status of all newly licensed medicines, new
formulations of existing medicines and any major new indications for established products.
Medicines not accepted for use in Scotland by SMC will not be included in the formulary.
Clinicians looking to prescribe these items are able to submit an patient specific application to the
ADTC.

A Peer Approved Clinical System (PACS) Teir 2 or Individual Patient Treatment Request
application should also be submitted to ADTC if the medicine:



        Scottish Medicines Consortium Access Policy Description                Scottish Medicines
                                                                                 Access Policy
                                                                                  Designation

   Is for an indication that has been considered and not                            PACS2
   recommended
   for use in NHS Scotland by the Scottish Medicines Consortium
   (SMC)
   Is accepted for use by SMC but the intended use is out with SMC                  PACS2
   advice

   Is a medicine which has been submitted and is                                    PACS2
   awaiting/undergoing
   evaluation by the SMC
   Is designated as an ultra-orphan drug and has not been                           PACS1
   recommended by use by the SMC

   Medicines which are non-submissions or have not yet been                           IPTR
   submitted
   to SMC


Black triangle drugs are those which are newly licensed medicines which require additional
monitoring such as new active substances and biosimilar medicines. Black triangle drugs will not,
in general, be included in the formulary unless there is no alternative for a previously unmet need.

                                                                                                        4
Before any drug is placed on the formulary a thorough assessment process is completed and
approval granted by ADTC.


NHS D&G joint formulary does not of course take away prescriber’s rights to determine what is
clinically most appropriate for their patients, nor their responsibility for that decision. There will
always be additions and deletions to be made; improvements to the electronic format; audits fo
compliance to be carried out and public access to be enabled if the formulary is to remain a ‘live’
and relative document. Any feedback on the formulary can be sent to dg.dop@nhs.scot


We hope you find the Joint Formulary useful.




Ken Donaldson                      Nikki Holmes
Medical Director                   Director of Pharmacy




                                                                                                         5
Guide
This abbreviated drug list for most clinical areas, includes the names of those drugs suggested as
first or second choice in the Dumfries & Galloway Joint Formulary. Drugs recommended as first
choice are shaded in grey. Users should refer to the BNF for further detail and more specific
information.


The most up to date version of the Dumfries & Galloway Joint Formulary is maintained in electronic
form by the Formulary SubCommittee and can be accessed via this link NHS D&G formulary .
Access it also available via the Clinical Handbook tab on Beacon.


Prescribers are asked to choose from the formulary in the first instance. This will be appropriate
for the majority of patients, the majority of the time. Adherence to the formulary will be monitored.
However, non-formulary choices are suitable when the first and second choices have been
considered and there is a justifiable reason for choosing a non-formulary drug e.g. contra-
indications. The formulary is not designed to contain all medicines that will be required by all
patients in every situation.


Generic names have been used for most drugs throughout the formulary to ensure that when a
generic drug is available it is prescribed. This will ensure that the cost and risk reduction benefits of
this approach are obtained. There are a few occasions where generic prescribing is not considered
appropriate (modified release preparations, inhalers and combination products e.g. HRT) and it is
recommended that prescribing is by brand name (® Prescribe by brand name).


Strengths have only been mentioned where relevant.


Disclaimer
Unless otherwise stated, the doses where given are for adults with normal hepatic and renal
function. Practitioners are advised to consult Medicines for Children for advice on prescribing for
children. While every effort has been made to ensure that the information contained within this
formulary is accurate, no responsibility or liability can be accepted by those involved in its
production for any loss, injury or damage which is suffered as a consequence of any errors,
omissions or inaccuracies contained within it. In particular, those prescribing drugs should always
check the suitability of the drug and dosage based on the information provided by the
manufacturer.




                                                                                                            6
                                   BNF Chapter 1 Gastrointestinal System

Section 1     Chronic Bowel Disorders
Section 1.1   Coeliac Disease
              Local Gluten Free Formulary available at Gluten Free Services – NHS Dumfries & Galloway
Section 1.2   Diverticulitis Disease and Diverticulitis

Section 1.3   Inflammatory Bowel Disease
              NICE NG129: Crohn’s disease :management NICE
              NG130: Ulcerative colitis: management

              Crohn’s disease
              Acute Exacerbation of Crohn’s disease
              Prednisolone tablets
              Methyprednisolone IV hospital only
              Budesonide (Budenofalk® E/C Capsules, E/C Granules, Entocort® Modified Release Tablets)

              Prescribing notes:
              Budesonide can be used for patients with one or more of distal ileal, ileoccaecal or right sided disease
              who are unsuitable or have contraindications to a conventional corticosteroid.
              Budesonide may be less effective than prednisolone but may be better tolerated.

              Within acute methylprednisolone IV Injection with a dose of 30mg twice a day – is considered safer and
              more convenient than hydrocortisone injections four times a day.

              Add on treatment/maintenance of remission – drugs affecting the immune response
              Azathioprine tablets – unlicensed indication (specialist initiation)
              Mercaptopurine Tablets – unlicensed indication (specialist initiation) – use branded Hanixol
              Methotrexate (specialist initiation only)

              Prescribing notes
              All of the above can be used as steroid sparing agents to induce remission
              Thiopurine Blood monitoring: FBC, U&E’s, LFT’s and CRP at weeks 2, 4, 8 and 12 and if satisfactory
              then move to 3 monthly bloods.


              Ulcerative colitis
              Treatment of acute mild-moderate ulcerative colitis – the severity and extent of the disease should be
              considered when choosing the route of administration

              Ulcerative Proctitis
                                                  ®
              Mesalazine 1g suppository (Salofalk )
              Budesonide 2mg foam enema
              Budesonide 4mg suppository
                                                                                           ®
              If not managed on rectal preparation add mesalazine 3mg MR granules (Salofalk )

              Rectosigmoid
              Mesalazine 1g Foam Enema (Salofalk®)
              Budenofalk 2mg foam enema
                                                                                           ®
              If not managed on rectal preparation add mesalazine 3mg MR granules (Salofalk )


              Disease above the Rectosigmoid
              Mesalazine 2g liquid enema (Salofalk)
              Budesonide 2mg foam enema
              Mesalazine 3g MR Granules (Salofalk®)

              Pancolitis

              Octasa 800mg tablets




                                                                                                                7
Severe exacerbation
Prednisolone tablets
Budesonide (Cortiment®) 9mg prolonged release tablets - Restricted for use in patients with UC who
present with active left-sided disease and/or proctosigmoiditis who are not suitable for oral prednisolone,
as an alternative to budesonide rectal formulations or off-label oral budesonide

Prescribing notes:
Salofalk® is the preferred brand when a patient is being initiated on Mesalazine. If Salofalk® is not
suitable, Octasa® is an alternative brand that could be considered. Consideration should be given to
reviewing and switching patients prescribed Asacol MR to equivalent dose of Octasa® MR.

Please consider bone protection for patients with repeated or prolonged treatment with corticosteroids.


For repeated courses of steroids (eg more than 2 in a year) please seek specialist advice regarding
escalating treatment.


Other Corticosteroids
Budesonide (Jorveza) 1mg orodispersible tablets – specialist initiation for the treatment of eosinophilic
oesophagitis in adults (older than 18 years of age) who have been unsuccessfully treated with proton
pump inhibitors.

Prescribing notes
This is 6 week treatment course which can be extended to max 12 weeks on review. Consider
requirement for blood glucose monitoring.


Immunosuppressants
** Adalimumab – restricted to specialist use, prescribe by brand **
Amgevita® SC - preferred biosimilar
 Crohn’s disease: For the treatment of moderate to severe, active Crohn’s disease in adults whose
disease has not responded to conventional therapy (including immunosuppressive and/or
corticosteroid treatments) or who are intolerant of or have contraindications to such therapies, in line
with NICE MTA 187.
Ulcerative colitis: Use in the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adults is
restricted to those patients whose disease has responded inadequately to conventional therapy,
including corticosteroids, Mercaptopurine and Azathioprine, or who cannot tolerate, or have medical
contraindications for such therapies.


** Infliximab - restricted to specialist use, prescribe by brand **
Remsima® IV/SC– preferred biosimilar.
Crohn’s disease: Infliximab is formulary for the treatment of moderate to severe active Crohn’s
disease in adults whose disease has not responded to conventional therapy (including
immunosuppressive and/or corticosteroid treatments) or who are intolerant of or have contraindications
to conventional therapy, in line with NICE MTA 186.
Ulcerative colitis: Treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adults is restricted to
those patient whose disease has responded inadequately to conventional therapy, including
corticosteroids, mercaptopurine and azathioprine, or who cannot tolerate, or have medical
contraindications for such therapies.


** Ustekinumab - restricted to specialist use, prescribe by brand **
Wezenla® SC▼ - preferred biosimilar
Crohn’s disease: The treatment of adults with moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease who
have had an inadequate response with, lost response to, or where intolerant to either conventional
therapy or a TNF alpha antagonist or have medical contraindication to such therapies.
Ulcerative colitis: For the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative
colitis who have had an inadequate response with, lost response to, or were intolerant to either
conventional therapy or a biologic or have medical contraindications to such therapies.
                                                                                                       8
** Upadacitinib Tablets (Rinvoq®) – restricted to specialist use **
Crohn’s disease: For the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease
(CD) who have had an inadequate response, lost response or were intolerant to either conventional
therapy or a biologic agent, or for whom such therapies are not advisable.
Ulcerative colitis: For the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative
colitis who have had an inadequate response, lost response or were intolerant to either conventional
therapy or a biologic agent.


** Filgotinib Tablets (Jyseleca®) – restricted to specialist use **
Ulcerative colitis: for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis
(UC) who have had an inadequate response with, lost response to, or were intolerant to either
conventional therapy or a biologic agent.


** Tofacitinib Tablets (Xeljanz®) – restricted to specialist use **
Ulcerative colitis: For the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis is
restricted to specialist use in patients who have had an inadequate response, lost response, or were
intolerant to either conventional therapy and a biologic agent.


** Mirikizumab IV/SC (Omvoh®) – restricted to specialist use **
Ulcerative colitis: For the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis
who have had an inadequate response with, lost response to, or were intolerant to either conventional
therapy or a biologic treatment.


** Risankizumab IV/SC (Skyrizi®) – restricted to specialist use **
Crohn’s disease: for the treatment of patients 16 years and older with moderately to severely active
Crohn's disease who have had an inadequate response to, lost response to, or were intolerant to
conventional therapy or a biologic therapy, or if such therapies are not advisable.
Ulcerative colitis: for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis
who have had an inadequate response to, lost response to, or were intolerant to conventional therapy or
a biologic therapy. (Business Case not yet through ADTC)


** Vedolizumab IV/SC (Entyvio®) – restricted to specialist use **
Crohn’s disease: for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active Crohn's
disease who have had an inadequate response with, lost response to, or were intolerant to either
conventional therapy or a tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNFα) antagonist.
Ulcerative colitis: for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative
colitis who have had an inadequate response with, lost response to, or were intolerant to either
conventional therapy or a tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNFα) antagonist.

Prescribing notes
blood monitoring for biologics FBC, U&E’s, LFT’s and CRP monthly for 3 months and if satisfactory
then move to 3 monthly bloods




                                                                                                        9
               Irritable Bowel Syndrome
               NICE CG61 : IBS in adults diagnosis and management

               Antispasmodics
               Hyoscine Butylbromide Tablets
               Mebeverine 135mg Tablets
               Peppermint oil capsules (Reserved for symptoms of bloating).Prescribe as Mintec®

               Prescribing notes
               Mebeverine/Fybogel combination is non formulary – it is more cost effective to prescribe as individual
               components

               Laxatives – Guanylate Cyclase c receptor agonists
               Linaclotide – restricted to specialist initiation for IBS with constipation as predominant feature

Section 2      Constipation and Bowel Cleansing

Section 2.1    Bowel Cleansing
               Moviprep®
               Picolax®

Section 2.2    Constipation
               Bulk forming laxatives
               Ispaghula Husk

               Osmotic laxatives
               Macrogol 3350 sachets (Laxido®, Laxido Paediatric®)
               Lactulose Solution
               Phosphate Enema (first line rectal formulation)

               Faecal softeners
               Docusate Sodium Capsules

               Stimulant laxatives
               Bisacodyl Tablets (first line oral preparation)
               Glycerol Suppositories (first choice rectal formulation)
               Senna tablets

               Prescribing notes
               For laxative use in palliative care refer to national palliative care guidelines
                www.palliativecareguidelines.scot.nhs.uk
Section 3      Diarrhoea (acute)
               Oral Rehydration Sachets (Dioralyte®) – for acute diarrhoea
               Loperamide 2mg Capsules or
               Codeine Phosphate Tablets

               Prescribing notes
               First line treatment for acute diarrhoea is to prevent dehydration. Loperamide capsules are preferred to
               tablets
Section 4       Disorders of Gastric Ulceration and Ulceration
                NICE CG184 Gastro-oesophageal reflux disease and dyspepsia in adults investigation and management



Sections 4.1   Dyspepsia and gastro-oesophageal reflux disease
& 4.3
               Antacids
               Peptac® Suspension (first line compound alginates and proprietary indigestion preparation) Gaviscon
               Double Action® (only available as mint)

               Peptac® has the same active ingredient as Gaviscon® Liquid. High in sodium and should be used with
               caution where salt restriction is important.

               Co-Magaldrox (Mucogel®) First line antacid with Simeticone.



                                                                                                                    10
              Paediatrics
              Gaviscon® Infant Sachets
              Prescribing notes: One dose is equivalent to half a dual sachet.

              H2-receptor antagonists
              Famotidine

              Proton pump inhibitors
              MHRA Drug Safety Update (2014): PPIs and hypomagnesaemia
              MHRA Drug Safety update (2015): PPIs and SCLE
              MHRA Drug Safety Update: PPIs in long term use: increased risk of fracture
              MHRA Drug Safety Update (2014): Clopidogrel and PPIs interaction

              Omeprazole capsules (do not prescribe omeprazole 40mg – prescribe as 2x20mg)
              Lansoprazole Capsules
              Lansoprazole Orodispersible tablets (reserved for patients with swallowing difficulties or those who
              require administration via NG/PEG tube)
              Omeprazole Intravenous
Section 4.2   Gastric and Duodenal Ulceration

              Helicobacter pylori eradication
              No penicillin allergy
              Oral first line for 7 days:
              Omeprazole 20mg capsules twice daily (or lansoprazole 30mg capsules twice daily)
              plus amoxicillin 1g twice daily and either clarithromycin 500mg twice daily or metronidazole 400mg twice
              daily (treatment choice should take into account previous treatment with clarithromycin or metronidazole)

              Penicillin allergy
              Oral first line for 7 days:
              PPI as above
              plus clarithromycin 500mg twice daily and metronidazole 400mg twice daily

Section 6     Gastro-intestinal smooth muscle spasm
              See Section 1.4 – Antispasmodics

Section 7     Liver disorders and related conditions

Section 7.1   Biliary disorders

              Bile acids
              Colestyramine Sachets/Colestyramine Light Sachets
              Please note locally Colestid is preferred second choice over Cholestagel.       Local agreement in
              place – specialist initiation only.

              Primary Biliary Cholangitis
              Obeticholic acid – specialist initiation

              Ursodeoxycholic acid
Other         Hepatic Encephalopathy
              Rifaximin tablets – Specialist Initiation
              Lactulose to inhibitit ammonia production in the intestine/accelerate defaecation


Section 8     Obesity
              Diet and lifestyle changes
              Orlistat

              Prescribing notes:
              Treatment beyond 12 weeks only if weight loss since start of treatment is greater than 5%




                                                                                                                     11
   Section 9     Rectal and anal disorders

   Section 9.1   Anal fissures
                 Anusol HC
                 Diltiazem 2% - specialist initiation only
                 Rectogesic® 0.4% ointment – specialist initiation as per local protocol

   Section 9.2   Haemorrhoids
                 Scheriproct® ointment/suppositories

   Section 10    Reduced exocrine secretions
                 Creon® Capsules – ongoing intermittent supply issues see Ref Help
                 https://rightdecisions.scot.nhs.uk/dgrefhelp-nhs-dumfries-galloway/gastroenterology/pert-shortage-
                 leaflet/?searchTerm=PERT

                 Prescribing notes
                 Co-prescription of PPI advised to reduce gastric acid degradation
   Section 11    Stoma care
                 See local stoma guidance – under review

Back to Contents page




                                                                                                                      12
                                       BNF Chapter 2 Cardiovascular System

Section 1     Anti Arrhythmics
              Class I membrane stabilising drugs
              Flecainide

              Class II beta-blockers
              Bisoprolol
              Carvedilol

              Class III anti-arrhythmic agents
              Sotalol
              Amiodarone
              Dronederone – for the prevention of recurrence of AF in patients in whom beta-blockers, class 1c drugs
              or amiodarone are contraindicated, ineffective or not tolerated. Specialist initiation only.

              Class IV calcium-channel blockers (not to be used in patients with LVSD)
                                                                                    ®          ®
              Diltiazem – MR preparations should be prescribed by brand (Alizem XL , Zemtard XL capsules)
              Verapamil (Securon®)

              Other:
              Atropine
              Adenosine

              Prescribing note
              Refer to the clinical handbook for further info on narrow complex tachycardia

              Cardiac glycosides
              Digoxin

Section 2     Bleeding disorders

              Antifibrinolytic drugs and haemostatics
              Tranexamic acid

Section 3     Blood clots

Section 3.2   Parenteral anticoagulants:

              Prophylaxis of DVT
              Dalteparin

              Treatment of DVT and/or PE
              Dalteparin

              Unstable angina and non-Q-wave MI
              Fonaparinux

              Oral anticoagulants:

              Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with valvular AF, treatment of DVT
              and /or PE
              Warfarin

              Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation,
              treatment of DVT and /or PE
              Apixaban
              Edoxaban (where once daily dosing is desirable)
              Warfarin

              Prescribing Notes
              Please contact Haematology for advice on anticoagulant treatment for recurrent DVT/PE




                                                                                                                13
               Other – Restricted to use only on advice of Consultant Haematologist in accordance with local
               protocol
                                        ®
               Idarucizumab (Praxibind ) injection/infusion
                                          ®
               Andexanet alfa (Ondexxya ) infusion




Section 4      Blood pressure conditions

Section 4.1    Hypertension

               NICE Patient decision aid - Hypertension
               NICE: Hypertension in adults: diagnosis and treatment

               Prescribing note
               Please note use calcium channel blocker amlodipine if patient is > 55 years or Afro-Caribbean ethnicity

               Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors
               Ramipril capsules

               Post stroke / prevention of vascular events in at risk patients
               Ramipril capsules


              Angiotensin-II receptor antagonists
              Prescribing note
              In patients who are intolerant of ACE inhibitors (e.g bradykinin cough angioedema), an angiotensin-II
              receptor antagonist may be considered as an alternative.
               Candesartan

               Calcium-channel blockers
               Amlodipine
                                                                    ®
               For long acting, once daily preparations - Adipine XL (Nifedipine)
              Prescribing note
              Longer-acting calcium channel blockers generally appear to have fewer adverse effects associated with
              them (such as flushing, headache, and palpitations), although this is not thought to be the case when
              considering ankle oedema.

               Beta-adrenoceptor blocking drugs
               Bioprolol

              Mineralocorticoid Receptor Antagonist (MRA)
              Spironolactone
              Eplerenone (used in men reduced risk of gynecomastia)

               Thiazides
               Indapamide
               Bendroflumethiazide

                Alpha-adrenoceptor blocking drugs
                Doxazosin
              Prescribing note
              Doxazosin should be used with caution in patients with heart failure or impaired left ventricular function.
              It may cause postural hypotension and first dose hypotension. Treatment should be initiated at the
              lowest dose possible and titrated upwards.




                                                                                                                      14
Section 6   Heart Failure –
                For advice on prescribing in HF (heart failure) please contact the Heart Failure Nurse Specialists
                   (HFNS) directly on
                          dg.hf-referrals@nhs.scot
                Please do not stop any patients HF medications indefinitely without discussing with the HFNS
                   first.
                If stopping for a period, please ensure they are reviewed for restarting when appropriate –
                   HFNS team can offer guidance with this.

            Heart Failure with reduced ejection Fraction (HF-rEF) – will be under HFNS until stable
            LVEF ≤40% - Prescribe the 4 Pillars of Heart Failure

               Entresto if LVEF ≤40% - aim to titrate up dose every 2-3 weeks (accept a little light-headedness if
                stands up too quickly). Ensure ACE Inhibitors are STOPPED 48 hours prior to initiation of
                Entresto.

               Betablocker - Bisoprolol or Carvedilol




               Mineralocorticoid Receptor Antagonist (MRA) – Spironolactone or Eplerenone (used in men
                reduced risk of gynecomastia). MRAs can be used providing potassium is <5.0mmol/L, if K
                >5.5mmol/L then can add Lokelma (Sodium Zirconium Cyclosilicate) 5g daily - discuss with HFNS)




               SGLT2 inhibitor - Dapagliflozin or Empagliflozin (If patients are already on Empagliflozin for
                diabetes continue)


               Diuretics
                     Furosemide – starting doses 40mg OD
                     Bumetanide
                     Metolazone (Cardiology advice only)

               If K+ >5.5mmol/L can consider prescribing Lokelma (Sodoim Zirconium Cyclosilicate)


            For HF patients if eGFR is above 30mls/min, a rise in creatinine or fall in eGFR by up to 25% is
            acceptable to properly treat their heart. If more than this, contact the HFNS for advice. The first
            drug that should be temporarily stopped if a mild AKI is the MRA (Eplerenone/Spironolactone)




            Heart Failure with mildly reduced Ejection Fraction (HFmrEF) LVEF 41-49%
            Treat the same as HFrEF with the 4 pillars but instead of starting Entresto start ACEi/ARB

            Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction (HFpEF) LVEF ≥50-55% with symptoms of HF and
            raised NTproBNP

               SGLT2i - Dapagliflozin or Empagliflozin (If patients are already on Empagliflozin for diabetes
                continue)

               Treat hypertension;
                    First line: ACEi e.g. Ramipril
                    Second line: ARB e.g. Candesartan
                    (ARB to only be used if ACEi not tolerated e.g. bradykinin cough or angioedema. There is no
                    additional benefit with Entresto in patients with LVEF >40%)


               Treat AF with rate control – Bisoprolol/Digoxin
               Treat oedema with diuretics: Furosemide or bumetanide (metolazone Cardiology advice only)

                                                                                                                 15
Section 7   Hyperlipidaemia

            Please see D&G Coronary Heart Disease and Stroke, Primary and Secondary Prevention
            Guideline

            Primary Prevention
            Atorvastatin 20mg OD

            Secondary Prevention (Target LDLc <2mmol/L)
              st
            1 Line: Statins – Atorvastatin/rosuvastatin
            If statin intolerant, please follow NICE guidelines NICE Statin Intolerance Pathway
             nd
            2 Line: Ezetimibe
             rd
            3 Line: Bempedoic acid (Nilemdo®) or Bempedoic acid/Ezetimibe (Nustendi®) (Nustenidi is
            the same price as Nilemdo)

            Specialist Initiation:
            Evolocumab (Repatha®)
            Alirocumab (Praluent®) –IPTR required
            Inclisiran (Leqvio®)


Section 8    Anti-Anginals

             Nitrates
             Glyceryl Trinitrate
             Isosorbide Mononitrate
            (MR preparations are more cost effective; prescribe generically as MR 25/50mg caps or 40/60mg
            tabs)

             Beta blocker
             Bisoprolol

             Ivabradine if in sinus rhythm and heart rate >70bpm but if patient is in AF use Beta-blocker (+ digoxin
             if needed for rate control)


             Calcium channel blocker
             Amlodipine

             Nicorandil (May be considered as add-on treatment or if intolerant to standard initial treatment)

             If normal LV function can consider:
             Diltiazem (Adizem XL®, Zemtard XL® capsules)
             Verapamil (Securon®)

             Acute coronary syndrome –– NICE 185 SIGN 148.

                     Dual Antiplatelet therapy (consider PPI for gastro protection)
                     ACEi/ARB
                     Beta-blocker
                     Statin
                     GTN

            Patients with acute coronary syndrome should receive dual antiplatelet therapy for six months. Longer durations
            may be used where the risks of atherothrombotic events outweigh the risk of bleeding. Shorter durations may be
            used where the risks of bleeding outweigh the risk of artherothrombotic events.

             Antiplatelet
             Aspirin dispersible 75mg OD
             Clopidogrel 75mg OD
             Prasugrel 10mg OD – contraindicated in patients with a history of Stroke/TIA
             Ticagrelor 90mg BD – no longer being commenced but some existing patients may still be on it.

             Please note if on a DOAC and requires triple therapy – antiplatelet choice should be Aspirin and Clopidogrel
             due to higher risk of bleeding with Prasugrel. If DOAC ever stopped and patient has had PCI needs to restart

                                                                                                                          16
              Aspirin/Clopidogrel lifelong after stopping DOAC.

              Sympathomimetics
              Sympathomimetics:
              Adrenaline
             Inotropic sympathomimetics:
                   Dobutamine Dopamine
              Vasoconstrictor sympathomimetics:
                   Noradrenaline acid tartrate
              Fibrinolytics
              Acute myocardial infarction:
                          Tenecteplase
             Stroke thrombolysis
                    Alteplase

 Section 9    Oedema - Combination diuretics not recommended

              Loop diuretics
              Furosemide
              Bumetanide

              Thiazide and related diuretics
              Metolazone (Cardiology advice only)

              Aldosterone antagonist
              Spironolactone – avoid in men where possible risk of gynecomastia


Back to Contents page




                                                                                  17
                                       BNF Chapter 3 Respiratory System

Section 3      Airways Disease, Obstructive
               See NHS D&G Quit Your Way for smoking cessation

Section 3.1   Asthma - Chronic & Acute
              Overview | Asthma pathway (BTS, NICE, SIGN) | Guidance | NICE

              Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
              NICE guideline NG115 - Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in over 16s: diagnosis and
                 management; December 2018

              Quaity Prescribing Strategy for respiratory conditions
              Respiratory conditions - quality prescribing strategy: improvement guide 2024 to 2027 - gov.scot
                (www.gov.scot)

              Inhaler devices
               The choice of device should be based on patient factors eg manual dexterity, inhaler technique.
                  Where possible the most cost effective and sustainable device should be prescribed.
               Combination inhalers are preferred compared to individual components to aid compliance.
               Inhaler technique and compliance should always be checked before any switching of therapy.
               Patients with a metered dose inhaler (MDI) should have a spacer available for use for all occasions,
                  but particularly for acute exacerbations.
               Consider using lower carbon footprint (CF) inhalers where clinically appropriate. You may wish to
                  use the NICE decision aid, which considers the carbon footprint of inhalers as well as other issues
                  affecting inhaler selection.https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/ng80/resources/inhalers-for-asthma-
                  patient-decision-aid-pdf-6727144573

              Bronchodilators
              SABA – Short acting beta2 agonist bronchodilators
              NOT to be prescribed alone or first line for asthma – ensure a preventer is also used (ICS or ICS/LABA
              as MART) and for new patients consider low dose ICS/formoterol (AIR) or MART

                     Easyhaler Salbutamol ® (DPI) £3.31
                     Salbutamol CFC Free (MDI) (with spacer) £1.50
                     Salamol Easi –Breathe® (BA) £6.30
                     Salbutamol nebules £16.69/ 20-unit dose vials, Drug tariff

              Prescribing notes:
              MDIs are the most cost-effective device but DPIs have a lower carbon footprint
              DPIs have a dose counter which may help monitoring overuse of salbutamol in asthma
              MDIs should be used with a spacer device to improve lung deposition.
              DPIs and MDIs with a spacer have equal lung deposition compared to nebulised salbutamol

              LABA – Long acting beta2 – agonist bronchodilators
              LABAs are used as add on therapy if asthma not well controlled with inhaled corticosteroids and should
              be prescribed as a combination LABA/ICS. LABA alone should not be used in asthma.

              Antimuscarinic bronchodilators
              Asthma
              Spiriva Respimat® (tiotropium)
                                ®
              Spiriva Respimat (tiotropium) is accepted for use in Scotland as add-on maintenance bronchodilator
              treatment in adult patients with asthma who are currently treated with the maintenance combination of
              inhaled corticosteroids (≥800 micrograms budesonide/day or equivalent) and long-acting beta2 agonists
              and who experienced one or more severe exacerbations in the previous year.

              Moderate to high risk COPD
              Combination LABA/LAMA
                  Spiolto Respimat® (tiotropium/olodaterol) (SMI)
                  Anoro Ellipta® (umeclidinium/vilanterol) (DPI)

              Prescribing notes:
              Use of combination bronchodilation can stop inappropriate escalation to inhaled corticosteroids in COPD
              and potentially reduce oral steroid and antibiotic use.


                                                                                                                  18
The Respimat device (soft mist) is an alternative to a Dry Powder Inhaler device and can be used in
patients unable to use/take a DPI. Before prescribing a Respimat device please ensure the patient (or a
carer) can load the device and activate it. Use with a spacer (off-license) may be an option for some
patients, for example, where a carer may be assisting,
              ®                                                                       ®
The Respimat inhaler is available as a reusable inhaler. This applies to all Respimat products
                            ®                      ®               ®
including Spiriva Respimat and Spiolto Respimat . The Respimat inhaler will no longer need to be
disposed of each month, instead the base will automatically detach after 60 puffs. A new refill cartridge
containing 60 puffs can then be inserted into the device each month. The reusable inhaler device can be
used with up to six cartridges. Healthcare professionals and patients can find further information at
www.medical.respimat.com/uk

Corticosteroids (inhaled)
Asthma (adults)
     DPI Easyhaler version – Beclometasone (DPI) / Budesonide (DPI)
     Soprobec MDI (beclometasone) – (replaces Clenil)
     Kelhale MDI (beclometasone) – (replaces Qvar)
Prescribe by BRAND (products are not bioequivalent ) – See table 1

Combination corticosteroids – See table 1. Note: MART therapy possibilities highlighted in table 1

       Fobumix Easyhaler® (DPI)
       Symbicort 100/6, 200/6 or 400/12
       Fostair Nexthaler ® (100/6 and 200/6 DPI) Luforbec ®100/6 and 200/6 MDI, Bibecfo ®100/6 and
        200/6 MDI, Fostair® 100/6 and 200/6 (MDI)

For mild asthma, anti-inflammatory reliever therapy (AIR):

       Symbicort® 200/6 (DPI) – from age 12

Asthma paediatric patients
     Symbicort® 100/6 DPI – from age 6
     Seretide 50® MDI – from age 5

Combination ICS/LABA/LAMA (triple therapy) for COPD
    Trimbow® 88/5/9 DPI and available as 87/5/9 or 172/5/9 pMDI) Note: High strength licensed for
      asthma only.
    Trelegy® 100/62.5/25 Ellipta (DPI)


Table 1, showing total daily dose categories in asthma (Check licenses for different age groups,
maintain at lowest possible ICS dose) BTS/SIGN guideline September 2016.


    ICS                                       Low dose          Medium dose        High dose
    Note: all MDIs should be delivered
    via a spacer to increase deposition
    and minimise adverse effects
    Beclometasone dipropionate as             400mcg            800mcg             1000 –
    Soprobec or Clenil MDI                                                         2000mcg
    Beclometasone dipropionate as             200mcg            400mcg             800mcg
    Kelhale MDI or QVAR MDI/Easi-
    breathe (BA)
    Easyhaler beclometasone (DPI)             400mcg            800mcg             1600mcg
    Easyhaler budesonide (DPI)                400mcg            800mcg             1600mcg
    Combination inhalers
    Fobumix Easyhaler ® (DPI)                 80/4.5 one or     160/4.5 two        320/9 two
                                              two puffs twice   puffs twice a      puffs twice a
                                              a day             day                day
                                              160/4.5 one       320/9 one puff     160/9 two puffs
                                              puff twice a      twice a day        twice a day plus
                                              day                                  four puffs
                                                                                   (MART)

    Luforbec ® or Bibecfo ® MDI               100/6 one         100/6 two puffs    100/6 two
                                              puff twice a      twice a day        puffs twice a

                                                                                                      19
                                                 day                                     day plus four
                                                                    200/6 one puff       puffs if needed
                                                                    twice a day          (MART)

                                                                                         Or 200/6 two
                                                                                         puffs twice a
                                                                                         day
    Fostair ® Nexthaler (DPI) or MDI, only       100/6 one puff     100/6 two puffs      100/6 two
    if cannot tolerate alternatives              twice a day        twice a day          puffs twice a
                                                                                         day plus four
                                                                    200/6 one puff       puffs if needed
                                                                    twice a day          (MART)


                                                                                         200/6 two puffs
                                                                                         twice a day

    Symbicort (DPI)                              200/6 One puff     200/6 one puff       200/6 two puffs
                                                 when required      twice a day plus     twice a day plus
                                                 (AIR)              four puffs if        four puffs if
                                                                    needed (MART)        needed (MART)

Prescribing notes:
 Formoterol containing - medium dose ICS combination inhalers can be used for Maintenance and
    Reliever Therapy in asthma (see SPC for detailed advice). Some are also licensed for Anti-
    inflammatory reliever (AIR) therapy in asthma (See GINA and individual SPC for full details).
 Luforbec, Bibecfo and Fostair are twice as potent as beclometasone
 All 200/6 strength MDIs are licensed only for asthma
 Luforbec contains different excipients to Bibeco (and Fostair) and so a change to Bibefco (or
    Fostair) may resolve issues that some patients have with Luforbec (e.g. cough).
 Treat asthma with lowest possible ICS dose to control symptoms, maintenance usually at lower
    dose combinations.
 Ensure ICS is appropriate in COPD (licensed in combinations) as many moderate COPD patients
    will benefit from LABA/LAMA combination alone.
 Inhaled corticosteroids in combination inhalers for COPD should only be prescribed for patients with
    an FEV1 of 50% predicted or less, who have two or more exacerbations needing treatment with
    antibiotics or oral corticosteroids a year. Eosinophils are a useful marker of people with COPD who
                              9
    will respond (>0.3 x 10 per L)
 Therapy should be reviewed every 3 months with a view to stepping down or up as per national
    guidance
 Those with both Asthma and COPD will require ICS treatment. There may be specialist initiation of
    ICS/LABA combination plus LAMA
 Inhalers should be prescribed by brand
 Note: there are some less expensive ‘branded generic’ alternatives where people cannot manage
    the formulary inhaler options

Other corticosteroids
Prednisolone tablets (oral) or
Hydrocortisone (intravenous)

Prescribing notes:
   Dose/ duration: COPD = 30mg for 7-14 day course
                 Asthma = 40/50mg for 5-day course
   Prednisolone oral solution and soluble tablets are restricted to use in patients who are unable to
    swallow tablets. These preparations are considerably more expensive than the standard tablets.
   Time for onset for IV and oral hydrocortisone is no different, so there is little therapeutic gain if a
    patient has already started on an oral steroid prior to attendance.
   Normally short courses of steroids can be stopped abruptly but in certain cases they should be
    tapered – see BNF for more information.
   With regard to gastrointestinal effects, there is no advantage by using enteric coated prednisolone
    tablets; plain tablets should be used.
   Osteoprotection: Patients on or commencing high dose corticosteroid long-term (≥7.5mg per day of
    prednisolone or its equivalent for 3 months or more) should be offered bone protection with
    bisphosphonate.
                                                                                                              20
                Three or more short courses of oral steroids for exacerbations may require introduction of
                 osteoprotection therapy.
                Patients taking lower doses of oral corticosteroids long-term should be considered for risk fracture
                 assessment.

             Drug delivery devices
             Aerochamber ® Plus Flow-Vu Anti-static spacer device (compatible with all formulary inhalers)
             Easychamber ® spacer device (compatible with all formulary inhalers)

             Medi Peak Flow Meter® (Medicare plus international) standard (60-800 litres/minute) and low range 30-
             400 litres/minute

             Theophylline preparations (specialist initiation only)
                 Oral: Uniphyllin continus®
                 Aminophylline Injection (hospital use only)

             Prescribing notes:
              Smoking cessation may increase theophylline levels
              Theophylline should be prescribed by brand due to varying bioavailability
              Routine therapeutic monitoring is not required unless checking compliance or for toxicity

             Drugs for respiratory diseases
             Monoclonal antibodies – all specialist initiation and as per SMC advice
             Benralizumab (Fasenra®) injection
             Dupilumab (Dupixent) injection

             Mepolizumab (Nucala®)
             Omalizumab (Xolair®)
             Tezepelumab

             Leukotriene receptor agonist
             Montelukast tablets
             Prescribing notes: Not licensed in COPD


Section 2    Allergic conditions

             Antihistamines
             Cetirizine (non-sedating)
             Chlorphenamine (sedating)
             Fexofenadine

             Note Allergic Emergencies – under review see BNF 8.1a

Section 3    Conditions affecting sputum viscosity
             Mucolytics
             NACSYS ® effervescent tablets (contains 600mg acetylcysteine per tablet)

             Prescribing notes:
              Prescribe by brand to ensure most cost effective preparation.
              Mucolytics should be reviewed after 4 weeks to assess if there has been any clinical benefit.
              Patients prescribed carbocisteine capsules should be reviewed for continued benefit, if not then it
                 should be stopped. If appropriate to continue consider switching to NACSYS/reducing to
                 maintenance dose/using “when required”.
Section 4    Cough and congestion
             There is little evidence to support the use of cough suppressants. See cough guidance on DG Refhelp

Section 5    Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis
             Antifibrotics – specialist initation as per SMC
             Nintedanib (Ofev®)
             Pirfenidone (Esbriet®)
Back to Contents page



                                                                                                                   21
                                    BNF Chapter 4 Central Nervous System

Section 1     Mild to moderate Alzheimer’s disease :
              Donepezil tablets

              Severe Alzheimer’s disease,
              Memantine tablets/ oral solution
              Also for moderately severe who are intolerant or have contraindications to cholinesterase inhibitors:

              Dementia other than Alzheimer’s Disease: please seek specialist advice.

              NICE TA 217: Donepezil, galantamine, rivastigmine and memantine for the treatment of Alzheimer's
              disease March 2011, updated June 2018

Section 2.1   Epilepsy

              Initiation and withdrawal of therapy must only be managed by a specialist
              SIGN 143: Diagnosis and management of epilepsy in adults, May 2015, revised 2018.
              NICE [NG217]: Epilepsies in children, young people and adults

              Sodium valproate is NOT suitable for woman of child bearing age. Specialists must independently
              consider and complete Pregnancy Prevention Programme to demonstrate that there is no other
              effective treatment for all male and female patients under the age of 55 years, or that there are
              compelling reasons that the reproductive risks do not apply. Please see MHRA guidelines below.


              Focal onset seizures
              Specialist advice only:
               st
              1 line monotherapy
              Lamotrigine or levetiracetam – suitable in women of child bearing age
               nd
              2 line monotherapy
              Carbamazepine MR (prescribe by BRAND) or
              oxcarbazepine
              Zonisamide


               Generalised epilepsy
               Lamotrigine or levetiracetam - suitable in women of child bearing age
              Prescribing note
              levetiracetam is not currently licensed for use as monotherapy in generalised epilepsy but may be
              considered if lamotrigine not tolerated and patient of childbearing age



              2.2 Status epilepticus
              Step 1 (in community):
              Midazolam buccal/intranasal (Buccolam)
              Lorazepam IV/Diazepam IV

              Step 2 (in hospital):
              Midazolam buccal/intranasal (Buccolam)
              Lorazepam IV

              Step 3 (in hospital/CCU):
              Levetiracetam injection
              Phenytoin injection
              Sodium valproate injection
              (not suitable for women of
              CBP)

              Prescribing Notes
                 The choice of medication is determined by the type of seizure, and age and sex of patient; see
                  SIGN No.143
                 Sodium valproate should never be started in any woman or girl unless alternative treatments are

                                                                                                                      22
                  not suitable
                 Sodium valproate must not be used in any woman or girl able to have children unless she has a
                  pregnancy prevention programme in place
                 Follow latest advice for contraceptive use for men prescribed sodium valproate to avoid
                  exposure pre and post conception
                 Topiramate is contra-indicated in pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential unless the
                  conditions of a Pregnancy Prevention Programme are fulfilled
                 Refer to MHRA guidance:
              MHRA Drug Safety Update: Valproate medicines (Epilim, Depakote): contraindicated in women and
              girls of childbearing potential unless conditions of Pregnancy Prevention Programme are met: April
              2018

               MHRA Drug Safety update: Valproate medicines (Epilim, Depakote): Pregnancy Prevention
               Programme materials online
               https://www.gov.uk/government/news/mhra-advises-men-taking-valproate-and-their-partners-to-use-
               effective-contraception
               https://www.gov.uk/drug-safety-update/topiramate-topamax-introduction-of-new-safety-measures-
               including-a-pregnancy-prevention-programme

               MHRA Drug Safety Update: MHRA DSU: Antiepileptic drugs: Updated advice on switching between
               different manufacturers' products, Nov 2017

              The MHRA have divided anti-epileptic drugs into 3 categories in order to determine whether it is
              necessary to maintain continuity of the same brand.

               Category 1 – Ensure that the patient is maintained on a specific manufacturer’s product:
               carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, primidone

               Category 2 - Base the need for continued supply of a particular manufacturer’s product on clinical
               judgement and consultation with patient and/or carer, taking into account factors such as seizure
               frequency and treatment history. Take into account patient/carer-related factors such as their negative
               perceptions about alternative products and/or other issues related to the patient should also be taken
               into account: clobazam, clonazepam, eslicarbazepine, lamotrigine, oxcarbazepine, perampanel,
               retigabine, rufinamide, topiramate, valproate, zonisamide

               Category 3 – The potential for clinically relevant differences to exist between different manufacturers’
               products is considered to be extremely low. However, consider other patient/carer-related factors,
               such as negative perceptions about alternative products and/or other issues related to the patient
               (e.g. patient anxiety, risk of confusion or dosing errors): brivaracetam, ethosuximide, gabapentin,
               lacosamide, levetiracetam, pregabalin, tiagabine, vigabatrin

              This guidance only relates to the treatment of epilepsy – it does not apply to the use of these drugs for
              other indications eg neuropathic pain.
Section 3      Mental Health Disorders

               To know more about mental health conditions and their treatment, and to obtain printable patient
               information leaflets go to: www.choiceandmedication.org/nhs24/



Section 3.1    Anxiety
               Acute anxiety state
               Diazepam tablets 2mg short term treatment only of acute crises – (ensure appropriate review)

               Generalised anxiety disorder and panic disorder:
               www.nice.org.uk/guidance/cg113

               Social Anxiety disorder:
               www.nice.org.uk/guidance/cg159



                                                                                                                      23
Obsessional-compulsive disorder and body dysmorphic disorder:
www.nice.org.uk/guidance/cg31

Post-traumatic stress disorder:
www.nice.org.uk/guidance/ng116

Eating disorders:
www.nice.org.uk/guidance/ng69

Treatment of anxiety (and related) disorders:

First line – Individualised self help (CBT based) / Psychoeducation

Second line – High intensity psychological intervention / CBT etc

For adults whose anxiety disorder symptoms only partially respond to psychological interventions
consider adding medication:

Benzodiazepines are associated with poorer outcomes in the long term and should not be prescribed
for the treatment of anxiety except as a short-term measure during crises.

Pharmacological treatment of anxiety: (Note: different antidepressants have differing product licenses
for the anxiety disorders, see product literature for details)

Sertraline
Fluoxetine in OCD / BDD; tends to require higher doses
than depression
Alternative SSRI
SNRI: Duloxetine or Venlafaxine

Take into account (and discuss with the individual) the following factors:
 tendency to produce a withdrawal syndrome (especially Paroxetine and Venlafaxine)
 side-effect profile and the potential for drug interactions
 risk of suicide (especially in under 30 year olds) and likelihood of toxicity in overdose particularly
   during dose titration
 the risk of activation with SSRIs and SNRIs, with symptoms such as increased anxiety, agitation
   and problems sleeping
 Person’s prior experience of treatment with individual drugs (particularly adherence, effectiveness,
   side effects, experience of withdrawal syndrome and the person's preference).
 Increased risk of bleeding associated with SSRIs, particularly for older people or people taking
   other drugs that can damage the gastrointestinal mucosa or interfere with clotting (for example,
   NSAIDS or aspirin). Consider prescribing a gastroprotective drug in these circumstances.



Drug treatments of PTSD for adults (Specialist advice only)
Venlafaxine or sertraline

Consider antipsychotics such as risperidone, in addition to psychological therapies to manage
symptoms for adults with a diagnosis of PTSD if:
 they have disabling symptoms and behaviours, for example severe hyperarousal or psychotic
   symptoms and
 their symptoms have not responded to other drug or psychological treatments.

Nightmares in PTSD can respond to prazosin or doxazosin given at bedtime (specialist advice only)

Anxiety disorders can take 8-12 weeks to respond to pharmacological treatments. Review the
effectiveness and side effects of the drug every 2–4 weeks during the first 3 months of treatment and
every 3 months thereafter until stable.


Pregabalin:
Evaluate patients carefully for a history of drug abuse before prescribing and observe patients for
development of signs of abuse and dependence. Discontinue, gradually, if ineffective at 3 months.


                                                                                                     24
              Propranolol is not recommended by NICE guidance for management of anxiety. Propranolol can
              only help symptoms of anxiety such as palpitations and sweating, it does not mitigate the anxiety itself
              and has significant potential for sleep disorders and depression. If used it should be used only as
              needed for these symptoms and reviewed for effectiveness and adverse effects, with consideration of
              discontinuation once a treatment for the underlying condition is in place. Evidence does not support its
              use in panic disorder. Avoid use in those with Asthma, and COPD using beta-agonists.


              Specialist advice only:
              Antipsychotics
              Sedating antihistamines
              Imipramine / Clomipramine for OCD / BDD MAOIs e.g. Phenelzine / Moclobemide Propranolol SR for
              PTSD Lisdexamfetamine in binge eating disorder

Section 3.2   Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD): Specialist initiation
              NICE: Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder: diagnosis and management
              [NG87] Published March 2018 updated: Sept 2019 (Children and adults)
              www.choiceandmedication.org/nhs24/
              Medication choice – children aged 5 years and over and young people
              (Note: use of medicines for treating ADHD is off-label in children aged < 5).

              1. Methylphenidate short or long acting. Prescribe methylphenidate XL as recommended by specialist
                 team. Supplies of particular brands of methylphenidate XL may be unpredictable, where possible
                 please maintain patient on a bioequivalent brand if usual brand is not available.
              2. Lisdexamfetamine if methylphenidate insufficiently effective
              3. Dexamfetamine if symptoms are responding to lisdexamfetamine but who cannot tolerate the
                 longer effect profile.
              4. Atomoxetine or Guanfacine if:
                     o they cannot tolerate methylphenidate or lisdexamfetamine or
                     o their symptoms have not responded to separate 6-week trials of lisdexamfetamine and
                         methylphenidate, having considered alternative preparations and adequate doses
              5. Consider tertiary referral

              Medication choice – adults
              (Note: product licenses vary for adults between preparations and if pre-existing or new diagnosis)

              1. Lisdexamfetamine, or methylphenidate short or long acting (or combination). Prescribe
                 methylphenidate XL as recommended by specialist team. Supplies of particular brands
                 of methylphenidate XL may be unpredictable, where possible please maintain patient
                 on a bioequivalent brand if usual brand is not available.

              2. Switch to alternative from above if 6-week trial produces insufficient symptom control.

              3. Atomoxetine if:
               they cannot tolerate lisdexamfetamine or methylphenidate or
               symptoms have not responded to separate 6-week trials of lisdexamfetamine and
                 methylphenidate, having considered alternative preparations and adequate doses.

              ONLY on advice of tertiary specialist ADHD service:
               guanfacine for adults
               clonidine for children with ADHD and sleep disturbance, rages or tics
               atypical antipsychotics in addition to stimulants for people with ADHD and coexisting pervasive
                aggression, rages or irritability
              Medication choice – people with coexisting conditions
              Offer the same medication choices to people with ADHD and anxiety disorder, tic disorder or autism
              spectrum disorder as other people without ADHD.

              For person with ADHD experiencing an acute psychotic or manic episode:
               stop any medication for ADHD
               Consider restarting or starting new ADHD medication after the episode has resolved, considering
                 the individual circumstances, risks and benefits of the ADHD medication.



                                                                                                                   25
              Be cautious about prescribing stimulants for ADHD if there is a risk of diversion for cognitive
              enhancement, appetite suppression or a risk of stimulant misuse or diversion.

              After titration and dose stabilisation, prescribing and monitoring of ADHD medication can be carried
              out within primary care.

              When methylphenidate medication is not available due to ongoing supply issues please maintain
              patients on a similar formulation to avoid destabilisation.


Section 3.3       Bipolar disorder and mania

              Sodium valproate should never be started in any woman or girl unless alternative
              treatments are not suitable. If it is prescribed a Pregnancy Prevent Programme must
              be in place. Follow latest advice for contraceptive use for men prescribed sodium
              valproate to avoid exposure pre and post conception.

              NICE CG185: Bipolar disorder: assessment and management

              *MHRA Drug Safety Update April 2018 Valproate medicines (Epilim▼, Depakote▼): contraindicated
              in women and girls of childbearing potential unless conditions of Pregnancy Prevention Programme
              are met


              MHRA Drug Safety update: Valproate medicines (Epilim, Depakote): Pregnancy Prevention
              Programme materials online


              https://www.gov.uk/government/news/mhra-advises-men-taking-valproate-and-their-partners-to-use-
              effective-contraception


              Pharmacological interventions for mania/hypomania
              Seek specialist service advice, (Acute Mania would generally be managed in hospital, hypomania
              may be managed at home with support).
              1. If taking an antidepressant consider stopping this
              2. Offer an antipsychotic (haloperidol, olanzapine, quetiapine or risperidone) if not already taking
                 one. If already taking one consider if the dose should be increased or the medication switched.
              3. If poorly tolerated switch to an alternative antipsychotic within the list above.
              4. Consider adding lithium (prescribe by brand) if appropriate, optimise treatment using lithium
                 blood level monitoring.
              5. Consider adding sodium valproate (and not woman of CBP)


              Insomnia is both a symptoms and trigger for mania, consider if a hypnotic is indicated.

              Lamotrigine is not helpful in managing mania

              Pharmacological treatment of bipolar depression; (with specialist advice) consider:
                   Fluoxetine +/- (olanzapine or quetiapine)
                   Olanzapine monotherapy
                   Lamotrigine monotherapy

                   If already taking lithium, optimise treatment using lithium blood level monitoring.
                   If not already taking lithium and still unwell, consider adding lithium and optimising treatment
                    using lithium blood levels.
                   If already taking sodium valproate* (and not a woman of CBP) consider increasing the dose
                    within the therapeutic range
              Pharmacological prophylaxis of relapse in Bipolar disorder; (with specialist advice):
              Consider, with the individual, the medication that has been helpful during episodes of mania or bipolar
              depression and if to continue this longer term.
              If not already taking offer lithium as a first-line, long-term pharmacological treatment for bipolar
              disorder and:

                                                                                                                     26
                     if lithium is ineffective, consider adding valproate* (if not woman of CBP)
                     If lithium is poorly tolerated, or is not suitable (for example, because the person does not
              agree to routine blood monitoring), consider valproate* (if not woman of CBP) or olanzapine, or
              quetiapine.

              Consider the long term adverse effects of the medication and plan for physical health monitoring
              appropriate to the medication, including blood level monitoring for lithium.




Section 3.4   Depression
              For mild to moderate depression; self help – drug treatment is not a 1st line option.
              See: NHS Inform website for topics, for self help guides within individual topics:

              https://www.nhsinform.scot/illnesses-and-conditions/mental-health

              Pharmacological treatment of moderate to severe depression
              See dg.prescribingmatters.co.uk/guidelines/CNS
              First line:
              Fluoxetine
              Sertraline

              Second line:
              Alternative SSRI
              Duloxetine
              Mirtazapine
              Venlafaxine standard release tablets, (XL preparations are less cost-effective and should only be considered
              where standard release is not suitable).

              Recurrence of depression:
              previously successful anti-depressant

              Antidepressants for treatment of anxiety disorders see 3.1


              Formulary note: Fluvoxamine is NOT recommended for use in NHS D&G

Section 3.6   Psychoses and schizophrenia

              NICE Psychosis and schizophrenia in adults: prevention and management: [CG178] Published Feb
              2014 Last update March 2014
              https://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/cg178

              Treatment of psychosis (specialist initiation only)
              An antipsychotic appropriate to the patient’s needs and characteristics

              MHRA Drug safety update -
              Clozapine and other antipsychotics: monitoring blood concentrations for toxicity –

              Antipsychotics and dementia (on specialist advice only)
              Before prescribing consider Stress and Distress and contacting the IDEAS team unless prescribing on
              specific advice of specialist services. Review regularly to consider dose reduction/discontinuation

              Risperidone - only licensed for a maximum of 6 weeks use in the management of Behavioural and
              Psychological Symptoms of Dementia (BPSD)

              Antipsychotic depot injections (specialist initiation only)

              Formulary note: Where quetiapine is used it should be prescribed as standard release tablets




                                                                                                                     27
Section 4     Movement disorders

Section 4.1   Dystonias and other involuntary movements

Section 4.2   Parkinson’s disease
              Drugs used in idiopathic Parkinson’s disease and related disorders are on specialist advice only
              Dopaminergic drugs used in Parkinson’s disease
              Dopamine- agonists
              Ropinirole
              Pramipexole
              Ropinirole XL prescribe as Ipinnia XL®
              Pramipexole MR prescribe as Pipexus prolonged release tablets®

              In patients who are nil by mouth or who have absorption problems, Rotigotine patches may be
              considered as a treatment option
              Dopamine containing drugs
              Co-beneldopa (Madopar®)
              Co-careldopa (Sinemet®)
              Stanek® (Co-careldopa/Entacapone)

              COMT inhibitor
              Entacapone

              MAOB inhibitor
              Selegiline
Section 5     Nausea and labyrinth disorders

Section 5.1   Antihistamines
              Cyclizine
              Promethazine (sedating)

              See also National Palliative Care Guidance

              Phenothiazine and related drugs
              Levomepromazine
              Prochlorperazine

              Dopamine receptor antagonists
              Metoclopramide
              Domperidone

              Drug Safety Update: Metoclopramide: risk of neurological adverse effects Dec 2014

              Drug Safety Update: Domperidone for nausea and vomiting: lack of efficacy in children; reminder of
              contraindications in adults and adolescents Dec 2019

              5HT3 receptors antagonists
              Ondansetron

              Antimuscarinics
              Hyoscine hydrobromide

              Prescribing points;
              Motion sickness: Recommend patient purchases OTC treatment from community pharmacy

              Nausea and vomiting in migraine (See MHRA advice above)
              Metoclopramide

              Gastric stasis:
              Metoclopramide

              Nausea & vomiting in pregnancy:
              Cyclizine

              Opioid-induced:
              Haloperidol – See also National Palliative Care Guidance

                                                                                                                   28
            Other drugs for Meniere’s Disease:
            Betahistine
            Note betahistine is licensed for treating hearing loss, tinnitus, and vertigo associated with Meniere's.
            Evidence regarding its use for Meniere's disease is inconclusive. See clinical knowledge summary.



Section 6   Analgesics

            Dysmenorrhoea see BNF Chaper4.6

            Musculoskeletal and joint pains (including gout) see chapter 10

            Migraine, see chapter 4.5.1

            NOTE: When prescribing paracetamol or any paracetamol containing formulation for an individual
            weighing <50kg, the dose must be adjusted such that it does not exceed 500mg of paracetamol four
            times a day (2g/day)

            Tramadol is not approved for use in NHS D&G unless on Specialist Advice. If tramadol is
            prescribed the possibility of seratoninergic drug combinations must be considered.

            Step 1: mild pain
            Paracetamol +/-
            NSAID (Ibuprofen)
            Refer to section 10.4 for topical NSAIDs

            Step 2: moderate pain
            Codeine
            Dihydrocodeine

            Consider combinations as appropriate – Only after trial of Step 1
            Co-codamol 30/500 (prescribe as tablets/caplets) ± NSAID (Ibuprofen)


            Step 3: severe pain
            OPIATES SHOULD BE PRESCRIBED BY BRAND
            Morphine is 1st line
            Standard release:
            Sevredol®/Oramorph Liquid
            Modified release: Zomorph® caps

            ± Paracetamol
            ± NSAID (Ibuprofen)

            Morphine should be first choice opiate unless there are specific indications for an alternative opiate
            Oxycodone is 2nd line
            Standard release: Shortec® Capsules/
            Oxynorm Liquid
            Modified release Oxypro® Tablets
            +/- Paracetamol
            +/- NSAID

            Opiates of choice for patients with significant renal impairment/clinical indication for patch:

            Buprenorphine Transdermal Patch

            Fentanyl Transdermal Patch
            Opiodur®

            Transdermal fentanyl patches for non-cancer pain: do not use in opioid-naive patients

            Breakthrough pain relief is appropriate for cancer related pain, in chronic non-malignant pain avoid the
            use of opiates.



                                                                                                                       29
              Opiods: risk of dependence and addiction

              For palliative care only
              See current palliative care guidelines


Section 6.1   Headache
Section 6.1   Migraine

              For further advice and prescribing information, see:
              SIGN 155 Pharmacological management of migraine 2023 update
              DGRefHelp: Migraine in adults | Right Decisions

              Treatment of the acute migraine attack
              Mild to moderate migraine
              Aspirin
              Ibuprofen
              Paracetamol – if NSAIDs are contraindicated/not tolerated, or in combination with aspirin or NSAID

              Nausea due to migraine
              Metoclopramide – maximum treatment duration should not exceed 5 days
              Prochlorperazine

              MHRA Drug Safety Update December 2014
              Metoclopramide: risk of neurological adverse effects - GOV.UK

              Severe migraine
              Sumatriptan tablets
              Rizatriptan orodispersible tablets (note: orodispersible tablets are more cost effective)

              Consider the possibility of drug-induced headache (especially with codeine)
              The combination of an analgesic and metoclopramide can be as effective as a triptan

              Oral calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) inhibitors
              Rimegepant – for treatment of acute migraine in patients who have had prior failure on at least two
              triptans or triptans are contra-indicated

              Migraine prophylaxis (primary care)
              Propranolol
              Amitriptyline – unlicensed use
              Candesartan – unlicensed use (avoid in pregnancy and breastfeeding)
              Topiramate – contraindicated in pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential unless the
              conditions of a pregnancy prevention programme are fulfilled

              MHRA Drug Safety Update June 2024
              Topiramate (Topamax): introduction of new safety measures, including a Pregnancy Prevention
              Programme - GOV.UK

              Rimegepant – treatment of episodic migraines in patient who have had prior failure on three or more
              migraine preventative treatments
              Atogepant – treatment of chronic or episodic migraine who have had prior failure on three or more
              migraine preventative treatments

              Migraine prophylaxis (specialist)

              Botulinum toxin A (Xeomin) - licensed for treatment of chronic migraines only

              CGRP monoclonal antibodies (supplementary guideline in progress)
              Erenumab – approved for chronic migraine only
              Fremanezumab
              Galcanezumab
              Eptinezumab

              MHRA warning metoclopramide – only licensed for short term use up to 5 days due to risk of
              potentially serious neurological side effects
                                                                                                                    30
              Drug treatment of cluster headache acute attacks
              Sumatriptan subcutaneous

              Prophylaxis -
              see specialist

Section 6.2   Neuropathic Pain
               st
              1 line
              Amitriptyline (titrate to adequate dose)
              2nd line
              Gabapentin (titrate dose up to at least 1200mg a day)
              3rd line
              Duloxetine
              Pregabalin (prescribe as capsules)

              Care should be taken when co-prescribing these medications with opiates due to increased risk of
              significant side effects.
Section 7     Sleep disorders

Section 7.1   Insomnia

              Before prescribing consider contributory factors which may be causing insomnia e.g.
                  1. Poor sleep hygiene
                  2. Concurrent medications contributing to sleep disturbance (or to take advantage of sedative
                     side effects)
                  3. Underlying conditions e.g. depression, sleep apnoea, pain

              Sleepio is a digital app which can be used to help manage insomnia disorder for adults aged 18
              years and older, as an adjunct to their usual medical care. https://info.sleepio.com/suitability

              Pharmacological treatment of insomnia in adults (Seek specialist advice for insomnia in children.)

              Acute prescriptions only- short term relief of symptoms, max 4 weeks –
              Advise intermittent use (e.g. maximum 2 consecutive days) to reduce development of tolerance.

              Zopiclone (NICE advises to use drug with lowest acquisition cost)
              Zolpidem if adverse effects to Zopiclone.
              Diazepam
              Promethazine

              Hypnotics started in hospital should not normally be continued on discharge (except palliative care)

              Note: Sedating antidepressants are NOT appropriate to use as hypnotics due to potential for side
              effects and toxicity.
              Formulary note: Nitrazepam, Lormetazepam and Loprazolam are NOT recommended in NHS D&G.
              See guideline above for advice on switching benzodiazepine to diazepam equivalent.
Section 7.2   Narcolepsy
              CNS stimulants: secondary care advice only
              Narcolepsy: seek specialist advice


Section 8     Substance dependence
Section 8.1   Alcohol withdrawal symptoms: Inpatients Refer to clinical handbook
              Drug withdrawal symptoms: Inpatients Refer to clinical handbook
              Diazepam
              Lorazepam in special patient groups e.g. liver impairment, respiratory depression, frail elderly

              Alcohol withdrawal symptoms: Outpatients (specialist advice)
              Chlordiazepoxide

              Alcohol withdrawal symptoms in pregnancy: Seek specialist advice; usually chlordiazepoxide



                                                                                                                     31
                Maintenance of abstinence from alcohol
                Disulfiram – ECG and baseline LFTs with δgt & AST needed. ECG to be organized by initating
                prescriber. Normal dose is 200mg daily. Ongoing need for disulfiram should be assessed every
                6 months. Consider supervision requirements
                Acamprosate calcium (review annually for need to continue)
                Naltrexone (ongoing need must be assessed)

                Assisting Controlled drinking
                Naltrexone (ongoing need must be assessed)
                Nalmefene (ongoing need must be assessed)
                Baclofen (off-label, Specialist initiation only)
                Topiramate (off-label, Specialist initiation only) -
                Caution required in women of childbearing
                age, see MHRA guidance. Two prescribers
                must have decided this is the most appropriate
                option and a Pregnancy Prevention Plan
                completed

                Vitamin supplementation
                Pabrinex® IV: 1 pair TDS for 3 days then review,
                Thiamine 50mg three times daily. Stop at 6 months if abstinent
 Section 8.2    Nicotine dependence
                Smokers must be prescribed NRT or varenicline as part of a smoking cessation quit attempt
                supported by Quit Your Way or the Community Pharmacy Smoking Cessation Service. The decision
                regarding the use of NRT versus varenicline will be made during the initial assessment of the patient
                and will be determined by the patient’s clinical suitability and individual needs i.e. the
                pharmacotherapy that will be most likely to result in a successful quit attempt for the individual when
                provided along with support from the smoking cessation services.
                The choice of which NRT product(s) to be used should reflect the most up to date Smoking Cessation
                Guidance and the specified preferred products, which will take in to account current National NRT
                Framework Arrangements.

Section 8.3     Opioid dependence
                Opiate substitution Therapy (OST) A drug diary and urine sample is required prior to commencing
                treatment. Referral to NHS D&G Drug and Alcohol Service should be made.
                Espranor® (Buprenophine oral lyophilisate - mg) (Specialist initiation only)
                Buprenorphine sublingual - mcg (Specialist initiation only)
                Buvidal® (Long Acting Injectable buprenorphine) (Specialist initiation only)
                Methadone 1mg/1ml (Specialist initiation only).

                Opiate antagonists
                Naltrexone (Specialist initiation only) - baseline LFTs with GGT & AST needed. (ongoing need
                must be assessed).

                Emergency Opiate Overdose Treatment
                Prenoxad 1mg/ml pre-filled syringe
                Nyxoid 1.8mg nasal spray
                Accord 1.26mg nasal spray
 Other         Adjunctive treatments for neurodevelopmental disorders in children and adolescents

               Melatonin

               Specialist initiation
               Melatonin 2mg modified-release tablets
               Melatonin 3mg immediate release tablets

               Adalflex® tablets
               Melatonin 1mg/ml oral solution


               Prescribing notes
               If swallowing difficulties consider Adaflex® brand which is available in 1mg, 2mg, 3mg, 4mg and 5mg
               tablets. Adaflex® tablets can be crushed and mixed with water directly before administration.
               Liquids: Many melatonin liquids are considered unsuitable for use in children under 6 years of age due
                                                                                                                     32
             to their excipient content. Their use is also off label in this age group.
             Liquids must only be considered when unable to swallow and the crushing of Adaflex® is unsuitable.
             Melatonin capsules are expensive and not licensed in children therefore their use is non formulary



Back to Contents page




                                                                                                                  33
                                    BNF Chapter 6 Endocrine System


1.0 Antidiuretic hormone disorders
2.0 Corticosteriods responsive conditions
3.0 Diabetes mellitus and hypoglycaemia
4.0 Disorders of bone metabolism
5.0 Dopamine responsive conditions
6.0 Gonadotrophin responsive conditions
7.0 Hypothalamic and anterior pituitary hormone related disorders
8.0 Sex hormone responsive conditions
9.0 Thyroid disorders
Section 1       Antidiuretic hormone disorders
                Posterior pituitary hormones and antagonists – specialist use only

Section 1.1     Diabetes insipidus - specialist use only
                Desmopressin nasal spray
                Desmopressin tablets
                Desmopressin sublingual tablets
                Desmopressin injection

Section 1.2     Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretions - specialist use only
                Tolvaptan

Section 2       Corticosteroid responsive conditions

                For inpatients refer to the D&G clinical handbook>endocrine> ‘Hyperglyceamia & Steroids’ for
                inpatient management for all patients on high dose steroids

                Primary care management – under discussion

                National Patient Safety Alert Card
                Addisons Disease link to nhs steroid card


                Fludrocortisone
                Hydrocortisone
                Prednisolone 5mg or 5mg soluble tablets (avoid 25mg tablets as not cost effective)
                Dexamethasone (use soluble tablets in place of liquid as more cost effective)
                Methylprednisolone sodium succinate
Section 2.1     Cushing’s syndrome and disease
                refer to specialist services

Section 3.1     Diabetes mellitus and hypoglycaemia

                Prescribing note
                Oral hypoglycaemic agents which cause<5mmol/mol reduction in HbA1c after 6 months
                should be discontinued and alternative tried. For local guidance see DGRefHelp/Diabetes

                Biguanides
                Metformin maximum recommended dose is 2g daily
                Metformin MR – a trial of up to 6 months could be considered in patients with severe GI side
                effects who would otherwise discontinue immediate release. Dose is usually once daily with
                main meal of the day.

                   Metformin may cause gastro-intestinal adverse effects; it should be started at low dose
                    and taken with or after meals, and the dose gradually increased if tolerated
                   Hypoglycaemia is not a problem with metformin monotherapy
                   Sick day rules apply to metformin. Supply the patient with appropriate advice
                   Be aware of the possibility of Vitamin B12 deficiency associated with treatment with
                    Metformin
                   Combination tablets containing metformin + a DPP4i or an SGLT2i may offer a lower
                    tablet burden and lower cost option for patients suitable for the fixed doses


                                                                                                               34
 SGLT2 inhibitors
 Dapagliflozin
 Empagliflozin - initiate if eGFR>60ml/min

 In patients with type 2 diabetes and established cardiovascular disease, SGLT2 inhibitors
 with proven cardiovascular benefit (currently empagliflozin, dapagliflozin and canagliflozin)
 should be considered (SIGN 154).

    There is a risk of euglycaemic ketoacidosis with SGLT2 inhibitors; provide clear
     guidance to stop treatment if intercurrent dehydrating illness – advise on sick day rules
    Omit on the morning of surgery then restart when drinking and eating again
     Drug Safety Update MHRA March 2020 SGLT2 inhibitors monitor ketones in blood
     during treatment interruption for surgical procedures or acute serious medical illness
    The glucose lowering efficacy of dapagliflozin and empagliflozin is dependent on renal
     function, and is reduced in patients with eGFR < 45ml/min. If eGFR falls below 45
     ml/min, additional glucose lowering treatment should be considered in patients with
     type 2 diabetes mellitus.
    Patients on SGLT2 inhibitors should be given advice on genitourinary infections and
     should be used with caution in patients with a history of recurrent genito-urinary tract
     infection.
    Avoid if active foot disease or low carbohydrate diet
      treatment interruption for surgical procedures or acute serious medical illness

 Sulfonylureas
 Gliclazide 80mg tablets
 Glimepiride

    Sulfonylureas should be taken before meals.
    Patients should be informed that sulfonylureas can cause hypoglycaemia.
    DVLA regulations on testing should discussed

 Dipeptidylpeptidase-4 inhibitors (DPP4i)
 Sitagliptin
 Linagliptin -requires no dosage adjustment in renal failure and can be used in end stage
 renal failure

    Patients should be counselled to report any signs of acute pancreatitis

Glitazones
 Pioglitazone

    Pioglitazone is contra-indicated in patients with heart failure, active bladder cancer or a
     history of bladder cancer
    Use with caution in patients with other cardiovascular diseases and in the elderly
     Advise patient of risk of osteoporosis and bladder neoplasia
    Investigate macroscopic haematuria).

 Incretin mimetics

 Patients should be reviewed at 6 months and only continue therapy in those with a ≥5
 mmol/mol reduction in HbAlc and/or ≥3% reduction in body weight.

 Semaglutide oral ▼ (Rybelsus)

    It can be initiated in primary care based on SMC restrictions
     (www.scottishmedicines.org.uk)
    Oral semaglutide is taken on an empty stomach with a small glass of water avoiding food,
     drink and other oral medicines for 30mins. Adherence to these instructions is important
     for efficacy
    Ensure HbA1c and weight reviewed at 6 months
    If glycaemic targets have not been met on oral semaglutide an injectable GLP-1 agonist
     is likely to be a more effective alternative.
    GLP-1 agonists are associated with gastro-intestinal side-effects; use with caution if
     previous pancreatitis
    Semaglutide can worsen diabetic retinopathy, caution in pre-existing retinopathy

                                                                                                   35
    Patients should be counselled to report any signs of acute pancreatitis

 Semaglutide once weekly (Ozempic®)
 Exenatide once weekly (Bydureon®)

 Insulins
  Insulin should be initiated on specialist advice only
  Choice depends on the needs of the individual patient, taking into consideration lifestyle,
     age, preference and capabilities
  Type of insulin, device and needle size should be specified
  Care should be taken to write the brand name in full
  Insulins are not interchangeable.
  When prescribing insulin on a discharge or out-patient prescription, the word unit must
     be typed/ written in full.
  For sustainability penfill cartridges should be considered 1 line
                                                               st




Short acting Insulins

Humalog® cartridges 3ml
Humalog® Kwikpen pre-filled pen
Humalog® 10ml vial
Admelog Sanofi® cartridges 3ml▼ (formerly Insulin lispro)
Admelog Sanofi® vials 10ml▼
Admelog Sanofi® pre-filled pen▼
Novorapid® penfill cartridges 3ml
Novorapid® pre-filled pen
Novorapid® 10ml vials
Humulin S® 3ml cartridges
Apidra® Solostar pre-filled pen
Apidra® 10ml vial

Ultra short acting insulin
Fiasp ®Penfill catrridge 3ml▼
Fiasp ®FlexTouch pre-filled pen▼
Fiasp ® vial 10ml▼

Intermediate and long-acting insulins
Humulin I® cartridges 3l
Humulin I® Kwikpen pre-filled
pen

Insulin Analogues – for restricted use as per SMC
Abasaglar® cartridge 3ml
Abasaglar® Kwikpen pre-filled
pen
Levemir® penfill cartridge 3ml
Levemir® Flexpen pre-filled pen
Lantus® injection cartridge 3ml
Lantus® Solostar pre-filled disposable pen
Tresiba ® Penfill 100 units/mL solution for injection in cartridge
Tresiba ®FlexTouch 100 units/mL solution for injection in pre-
filled pen

Biphasic insulins
Novomix® 30 Penfill cartridges
Novomix® 30 Flexpen pre-filled
pen
 Humalog® Mix25 cartridge 3ml
Humalog® Mix25 Kwikpe
Humalog® Mix50 cartridge
Humalog® Mix50 Kwikpen pre-
filled pen
Humulin M3® Kwikpen pre-filled
pen
                                                                                                 36
               Humulin M3® cartridge 3ml



Section 3.1a    Diabetes, diagnosis and monitoring

                Blood monitoring

               Self blood glucose monitoring in Diabetes should be undertaken only:
                   when insulin is prescribed
                   to monitor for hypoglycaemia due to treatment with sulphonylureas

                Meters cannot be prescribed; strips to be read only with the appropriate meter. Please see
                table.

                Blood testing for ketones should only be undertaken on specialist advice
                (Supply 10/prescription, pregnant women may need more)

                  Meter                    Patient Group            Compatible             Compatible
                                                                    Glucose Strips         Ketone Strips
                  CareSens Dual          Type 1                    Caresens Pro            Ketosens

                  GlucoRx Q              Type 2                    GlucoRx                 -

                  Accu-chek Instant                                Instant

                  GlucoRx Nexus          Visually impaired                                 -
                  Voice


                  Freestyle Libre 2      FreeStyle Libre 2 Plus    Freestyle Libre 2       Caresens meter
                  Plus                   should only be            Plus                    and ketosens
                                         initiated under the       1 sensor lasts 15       strips
                                         advice of the             days
                                         specialist diabetes       25 sensors per
                                         team                      year per patient on
                                                                   NHS
                  Dexcom One Plus        Second line for           Dexcom One Plus         Caresens meter
                                         patients who have         sensors                 and ketosens
                                         experienced               1 sensor lasts 10       strips
                                         difficulties with         days
                                         Freestyle Libre 2 (e.g.   36-37 sensors per
                                         adhesive issues)          year per patient on
                                                                   NHS
                  Jazz Wavesense         Gestational diabetes      WaveSense Jazz
                                                                   strips



                Urine testing for ketones
                GlucoRx KetoRx® sticks

               Hypodermic equipment

               Injection devices
                Reusable pens are available to prescribe in different colours to aid patients distinguish
                between their differing types of Insulin

                Novopen 6 re-useable pen 3ml 1-60units for use with Novo Penfill cartridges
                NovoPen Echo Plus re-usable pen 3ml 0.5-30 units for use with Novo penfill cartridges
                Autopen 24®
                HumaPen® Savvio re-useable pen 3ml 1- 60units for use with Humulin and Humalog
                cartridges
                AllStar PRO® re-usable pen 1- 80units for use with Lantus and Apidra catrtridges
                Junior STAR®

                                                                                                             37
               Lancets
               Droplet and Caresens Lancets are compatible with most finger-pricking devices.
               Droplet lancets
               CareSens Lancets
               Unistik 3 (for visually impaired/dexterity problems)
               FastClix Lancets drum (only compatible with FastClix finger pricking device – provided with
               each Accuchek Instant meter)
               N.B Health professionals must only use single use devices: Sterilance Lite II – for use by
               health professionals only – do not prescribe – PECOS 143276

               Needles
               BD Viva® (4mm)
               BD Autoshield Duo® – for use by health professionals only (do not prescribe- PECOS
               189649)

               Sharps Containers
               Sharps bins should be provided for patients
               SharpSafe® container 1 litre
               SharpSafe® container 4 litre (Libre sensor patients only)
Section 3.2    Hypoglycaemia
               Treatment for hypoglycaemia must not routinely be prescribed
               Fruit juice/sugared drinks or soft jelly sweet

               Choice of treatment if appropriate depends on the clinical situation and includes
               Rapilose® Gel (glucose oral gel)
               Lift Glucose Juice Shot ® for renal patients (pay & report)
               Glucagon injection (GlucaGen® hypokit) – reserved for insulin-
               treated patients at high risk of hypoglycaemic attack who have a
               relative, carer or health professional who is able to reconstitute
               and administer correctly when required

Section 3.2a   Chronic hypoglycaemia
               refer to specialist services

Section 4      Disorders of bone metabolism

               For further please refer to the following reference sources and
               local protocols
               BEACON > DG RefHelp > Osteoporosis
               https://www.nhsdghandbook.co.uk/medical-
               handbook/osteoporosis
               SIGN 142 https://www.sign.ac.uk/media/1741/sign142.pdf


               Fracture risk assessment
               Management has shifted from diagnosing osteoporosis by bone density definition (lumbar
               spine or hip bone density 2.5 standard deviations or more below the young adult mean
               value for women, reported as T score <-2.5 by DEXA scan) to assessing and reducing
               fracture risk.

               A DEXA scan is recommended as part of the fracture risk assessment if already
               identified as “increased risk” – see Referral Criteria for DEXA on RefHelp and FRAX or
               Qfracture risk assessment calculators.

               If multiple vertebral collapses (2 or more) exclude myeloma or metastatic disease and
               commence treatment to reduce fracture risk regardless of bone density (DEXA not
               required however can be useful)

               Safety considerations

               Bisphosphonates are contraindicated where eGFR < 30ml/min for risedronate and
               ibandronic acid and eGFR < 35ml/min for alendronic acid

               MHRA warning regarding osteonecrosis of jaw with bisphosphonates
               https://www.gov.uk/drug-safety-update/bisphosphonates-osteonecrosis-of-the-jaw

                                                                                                             38
             MHRA warning for neck of femur fractures
             https://www.gov.uk/drug-safety-update/bisphosphonates-atypical-femoral-fractures


             Prevention and treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis

             Early menopause or under 60 years with no contraindications
                   HRT see 6.8.1

             Calcium & Vitamin D Supplements
             Dietary sources
             Accrete D3 film coated tablet (1 tablet twice daily)
             TheiCal-D3 chewable (1 tablet daily, dissolves on tongue for those with swallowing
             difficulties)
             Adcal D3 caplet (2 tablets twice daily)


             Treatment of osteoporosis
             Early menopause or under 60 years with no contraindications
             HRT see 6.8.1

             Post menopausal osteoporosis
             Alendronic acid 70mg weekly
             Risedronate sodium 35mg weekly
             Ibandronic acid 150mg monthly

             + Calcium and Vitamin D3 supplement

             Specialist initiation only
             Zolendronic acid 5mg (IV infusion)
             Romosumab (sub cut injection)
             Denosumab 60mg/ml 6 monthly s/c injection (see shared care protocol and
                    monitoring advice on RefHelp>Osteoporosis>Denosumab shared care
                    protocol)
            Teriparatide (Movymia®) daily sub cut injections – via Homecare

             Corticosteroid-induced osteoporosis (treatment and prevention)
            Alendronic acid 70mg (once weekly)
            Risedronate sodium 35mg (once weekly)

            + Calcium and Vitamin D3 supplement

             Male osteoporosis
             Specialist referral should be considered
            Alendronic acid 70mg (once weekly) please note licensed dose of alendronic acid in men is
            10mg once daily, but it is common practice to use 70mg once weekly

            + Calcium and Vitamin D3 supplement


             Treatment of Vitamin D deficiency
             See DG RefHelp>Osteoporosis> Vitamin D

Section 5    Dopamine responsive conditions

             Treatment of hyperprolactinaemia:
             Quinagolide in light of recent MHRA advice this should be drug of choice unless not
             tolerated/effective

             Cabergoline no longer first line therapy due to possibility of pulmonary fibrosis/cardiac
             valvolopathy

             Bromocriptine recommended for women planning a pregnancy



                                                                                                         39
Section 6      Gonadotrophin responsive conditions – Specialist initiation only
               Specialist use only
               Nafarelin

               Acromegaly somatostatin analogues
               Octreotide – Olatuton preferred brand
               Lanreotide
Section 6.1    Hereditary angioedema
               refer to specialist services

Section 7      Hypothalamic and anterior pituitary hormone related disorders
               refer to specialist services

Section 7.1    Adrenocortical function testing
               refer to specialist services

Section 7.2    Assessment of pituitary function
               refer to specialist services

Section 7.3    Gonadotrophin replacement therapy
               refer to specialist services

Section 7.4    Growth hormone disorders
               refer to specialist services

Section 8      Sex hormone responsive conditions


Section 8.1   Female sex hormone responsive conditions

              Prescribing notes
               For women requiring both oestrogen and progestogen aim to give as a single preparation
                  where available to minimise patient error and encourage equal absorption of both
                  components
               For women deemed low-risk of thromboembolism utilise oral tablet HRT
               Consider transdermal HRT for women with: GI disorder affecting oral absorption; previous
                  or family history of VTE; BMI>30; migraine headache; current use of hepatic inducing
                  enzyme medication; gallbladder disease
               Initiate prescribing using the lowest available dose, titrating no quicker than 3 monthly to
                  the lowest effective dose, continuing for the shortest duration to manage symptoms.
               Consider switching from sequential combined HRT to continuous combined HRT in
                  women over 50 years old after a period of 12-18 months on sequential combined HRT,
                  however women younger than 50 years old may require to be on sequential HRT for 2-3
                  years to reach amenorrhoea; sequential combined HRT should not be used for longer than
                  5 year duration
               HRT-Guide-160516.pdf BMS flowchart

              Oestrogen only HRT - for women who have had a hysterectomy; or receiving
              progestogen separately i.e. Mirena coil inserted within 5 years, or taking micronised
              progesterone, or medroxyprogesterone in a dose proportionate to oestrogen

              HRT Dose : Menopause Matters (link to oestrogen dose prescribing)

                                                    ORAL TABLETS
               LOW DOSE
               Elleste Solo                                   Estradiol hemihydrate 1mg
               Zumenon 1mg                                    Estradiol valerate 1mg
               Progynova 1mg                                  Estradiol valerate 1mg
               MEDIUM DOSE
               Elleste solo                                   Estradiol hemihydrate 2mg
               Zumenon 1mg                                    Estradiol valerate 2mg
               Progynova 1mg                                  Estradiol valerate 2mg


                                                                                                               40
*note the Estradot patches are the smallest in size, are often the brand women report stick
best, but are also most often associated with stock shortages

       TRANSDERMAL GEL/SPRAY (please note all formulations contain ethanol)
                                 TRANSDERMAL PATCHES

 LOW DOSE
 Estraderm MX                                    Estradiol 25mcg
 Evorel                                          Estradiol 25mcg
 Estradot*                                       Estradiol 25mcg, 37.5mcg
 MEDIUM DOSE
 Estraderm MX                                    Estradiol 50mcg
 Evorel                                          Estradiol 50mcg
 Estradot                                        Estradiol 50mcg
 HIGH DOSE
 Estraderm MX                                    Estradiol 75mcg; 100mcg
 Evorel                                          Estradiol 75mcg; 100mcg
 Estradot                                        Estradiol 75mcg; 100mcg
 Oestrogel                                       0.75mg/metered 1.25g pump
 Lenzetto                                        1.53mg/metered spray
 Sandrena 0.5mg                                  0.5mg/sachet
 Sandrena 1mg                                    1mg/sachet


Sequential combined: Peri-menopausal women with a uterus, i.e. less than 1 year since
last menses

                                       ORAL TABLETS
 LOW DOSE
 Elleste Duet 1mg                                Estradiol 1mg + norethisterone 1mg
 Femoston 1/10mg                                 Estradiol 1mg + dydrogesterone 10mg
 MEDIUM DOSE
 Elleste Duet 2mg                                Estradiol 2mg + norethisterone 1mg
 Femoston 2/10mg                                 Estradiol 2mg + dydrogesterone 10mg


                                   TRANSDERMAL PATCH
 MEDIUM DOSE
 Evorel Sequi*                                   Estradiol 50mcg; Estradiol 50mcg +
                                                 norethisterone


Combined patches are only available in medium dose strength. Local menopause service
would suggest starting treatment using half of an Evorel Sequi patch twice weekly to achieve a
low dose regimen. This is an unlicensed dose but supported by local and national specialists.
The cut half of the patch should be kept in a refrigerator.

*note Evorel Sequi contains two different types of patches in the pack, with the regimen of two
weeks of Evorel 50mcg (estradiol only) patches, to be followed by two weeks of Evorel Sequi
(estradiol and norethisterone) patches. It is important to appropriately counsel patients on the
safe and effective use of this product when prescribing.




                                                                                                   41
Continuous Combined HRT: for post-menopausal women, with a uterus, who have not
experienced menses for 1 year+ or perimenopausal women who are amenorhoeic due
to their POP/implant

                                          ORAL TABLET
 ULTRA-LOW DOSE
 Femoston-conti 0.5mg/2.5mg                         Estradiol 0.5mg + dydrogesterone 2.5mg
 LOW DOSE
 Kliovance                                          Estradiol 1mg + norethisterone 0.5mg
 Femoston-conti 1mg+5mg                             Estradiol 1mg + dydrogesterone 5mg

 Bijuve                                             Estradiol 1mg + progesterone 100mg

 MEDIUM DOSE
 Kliofem                                            Estradiol 2mg + norethisterone 1mg)
 Elleste Duet Conti                                 Estradiol 2mg + norethisterone 1mg

                                     TRANSDERMAL PATCH
 ULTRA-LOW DOSE
 Femoston-conti 0.5mg/2.5mg                         Estradiol 0.5mg + dydrogesterone 2.5mg


SEPARATE OESTROGEN AND PROGESTOGEN REGIMENS (not a combination tablet or
patch which contains both hormonal components)

When oestrogen and progestogen are administered separately, in order to protect against
endometrial hyperplasia the dose of progestogen should be proportional to the required
oestrogen dose, i.e. high dose oestrogen-containing regimens should have high dose
progestogen component.

The levonorgestrel 52mg IUS system, i.e. Mirena, can be used for all licensed doses of
oestrogen and current practice would be to use this for up to 5 years for endometrial
protection.

14-BMS-TfC-Progestogens-and-endometrial-protection-APR2023-A.pdf

ORAL PROGESTOGEN

Micronised progestogen should be taken at night due to side effect of sleepiness. Absorption is
improved by taking with some food.

Before increasing dose of oestrogen, first worth considering the following:

    ·     Expectations—are the symptoms likely to be hormone related, or are life stresses
          more relevant

    ·     Address any diet and lifestyle factors which may be contributing to menopausal
          symptoms if appropriate, such as smoking, alcohol, caffeine, high carbohydrate,
          sugary diet, lack of exercise.

    ·     Addition of Cognitive Behaviour Therapy may help for flushes, anxiety, low mood,
          irritability, sleep disturbance

https://www.womens-health-concern.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/02/02-WHC-FACTSHEET-
CBT-WOMEN-FEB-2023-A.pdf

    ·     If brain fog is a prominent symptom, the following leaflet may be helpful, explaining
          that brain fog is common, may or may not respond to HRT and does resolve

https://www.imsociety.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/09/ENGLISH-WMD-Leaflet.pdf

    ·     If using patches: are they adhering, any skin irritation, consider site application—
          buttocks provide best absorption
                                                                                                  42
   ·    If using gel ensure applying to thighs and letting soak in for 10-15minutes prior to
        dressing


                    ULTRA-LOW TO MEDIUM DOSE SEQUENTIAL HRT


 Up to 50mcg dose patch/ 2 pumps Oestrogel
 /2 sprays Lenzetto
 Micronised progesterone 100mcg           200mcg in the evening with food on days 15-
                                          28
 Medroxyprogesterone tablets              10mg daily on days 15-28
                             HIGH DOSE SEQUENTIAL HRT

 Up to 75mcg patch/3 pumps Oestrogel /3
                                    Discuss with Menopause team if ultra-high
 sprays Lenzetto                    dose oestrogen being considered
 Micronised progesterone 100mcg     300mcg in the evening with food on days 15-
                                    28
 Medroxyprogesterone tablets        10mg daily on days 15-28
           ULTRA-LOW TO MEDIUM DOSE CONTINUOUS COMBINED HRT


 Up to 50mcg dose patch and 2 pumps
 Oestrogel

 Micronised progesterone 100mcg capsules 100mcg in the evening with food
 Medroxyprogesterone acetate             2.5mg daily
                      HIGH DOSE CONTINUOUS COMBINED HRT

 Up to 75mcg patch and 3 pumps Oestrogel          Discuss with Menopause team if ultra-high
                                                  dose oestrogen being considered

 Micronised progesterone 100mcg capsules          200mcg in the evening with food
 Medroxyprogesterone acetate                      5mg daily

 Dysmenorrhoea
 Ibuprofen
 Paracetamol

 Irregular uterine bleeding – contraception not required
 Northisterone
 Medroxyprogesterone acetate

 Irregular uterine bleeing – contraception required
 See section on combined oral contraception

 Endometriosis
 See NICE guideline Overview | Endometriosis: diagnosis and management | Guidance
 | NICE
 See section on combined oral contraception or
 Northisterone
 Medroxyprogesterone aceteate
 Triptorelin acetate injection- Specialist advice only
 Ryeqo® (relugolix, estradiol.norethisterone tablets) – Specialist advice only

Uterine Fibroids – treatment of moderate to severe uterine fibroids is by Specialist
advice only
Ulipristal acetate (Esmya®) – See MHRA Drug Safety update Ulipristal acetate 5mg
(Esmya): further restrictions due to risk of serious liver injury - GOV.UK
 Triptorelin acetate injection- Specialist advice only
 Ryeqo® (relugolix, estradiol.norethisterone tablets) – Specialist advice only




                                                                                               43
Section 8.2    Male sex hormone responsive conditions
               Testosterone for hypogonadism due to testosterone deficiency in adult men
               Ensure FBC and PSA checked annually once stable

                Brand                               Dose                         Strength
                 TESTAVAN®                          Apply 23mg (1                20mg testosterone
                 85.5g pump                         pump) daily.                 in 1ml gel
                                                    Increased in steps of
                                                    23mg to a max of             1 pump actuation =
                                                    69mg (3 pumps)               1.15g (1.25ml) gel
                                                    daily                        containing 23mg
                                                                                 testosterone

                TESTOGEL ® 88g                      Apply 40.5mg (2              16.2mg testosterone
                pump                                pumps) daily.                in 1g gel
                                                    Increased in steps of
                                                    20.25mg to a max of          1 pump actuation =
                                                    81mg (4 pumps                1.25g gel containing
                                                    daily)                       20.25mg
                                                                                 testosterone
                TESTOGEL®                           Apply 50mg (5ml)             50mg testosterone
                30 x 5g sachets                     daily.                       in 5ml gel
                                                    Increased in steps of
                                                    25mg to a max of
                                                    100mg (10ml) daily
                TROSTRAN®                           Apply 60mg (3g)              20mg testosterone
                60g gel                             daily. Increase to a         in 1g gel
                                                    max of 80mg (4g)
                                                    daily
                NEBIDO                              1g (4ml) by very             250mg testosterone
                1 X 4ml vial                        slow deep IM                 per 1ml solution
                Specialist initiation               injection into gluteal
                only                                muscle every 10-14
                                                    weeks (first injection
                                                    interval can be 6
                                                    weeks)

               Anti-androgens
               Finasteride


Section 8.2a   Male sex hormone antagonism
               Refer to specialist services

Section 9      Thyroid disorders
Section 9.1    Hyperthyrodism

               Antithyroid drugs
               To be initiated on specialist advice
               Carbimazole
               Propylthiouracil – Patients should be counselled re risk of hepatitis (see SPC at
               www.medicines.org.uk )
               Beta-blockers
               Propranolol

Section 9.2    Hypothyrodism
               Levothyroxine
               MHRA Dryg Safety Update 2021: levothyroxine new prescribing advice for patients
               whoexperience symptoms on switching between different levothyroxine products

               Liothyronine Specialist initiation

               Hypoparathyroidism
               Alfacalcidol Calvive® 1000

                                                                                                        44
              Hyperparathyroidism
              Cinacalcet


Back to Contents page




                                    45
                                  BNF Chapter 7 Genito-urinary System


 1.   Bladder and urinary disorders
 2.   Bladder instillations and urological surgery
 3.   Contraception
 4.   Erectile and ejaculatory conditions
 5.   Obstetrics
 6.   Vaginal and vulval conditions

Section 1      Bladder and urinary disorders


Section 1.1   Oxybutynin IR
              Solifenacin

              Mirabegron – Note: To be considered where 2 separate trials of anti-muscarinics have not
              been effective or where first line options are contraindicated. This may be considered a first
              line option in patients with a high anti-cholinergic burden would be detrimental. In line with
              Scottish Polypharmacy Guidance 2015.

              Stress Urinary Incontinence in Women
              Pelvic floor muscle exercises
              See national guidance -
              Nice guidance - Men
              Nice guidance women
              Management | Incontinence - urinary, in
              women | CKS | NICE

Section 1.2   Urinary retention

              Alpha-andrenoceptor blockers
              Tamsulosin MR caps
              Alfuzosin
              Doxazosin

              5α-reductase inhibitors
              Finasteride
              Dutasteride

Section 1.3   Urolithiasis

              Consider alpha-adrenoceptor blockers in patients with distal ureteric stones less than 10mm
              in diameter

Section 1.4   Urological pain

              Alkalinisation of urine
              Potassium citrate
Section 2     Bladder instillations and urological surgery
              Bladder infection, dissolution of blood clots and maintenance of indwelling urinary catheters
              Sodium chloride 0.9%

Section 3     Contraception
              Refer to sexual health guidelines at – West of Scotland sexual health guidelines

Section 3.1   Contraception
              Combined hormonal contraceptives - oral
              1st generation
              Brevinor®




                                                                                                               46
              2nd generation – ethinylestradiol + levonorgestrel
              Levest® 150/30
              Rigevidon®

              Triphasic
              TriRegol®

              3rd generation – ethinylestradiol + desogestrel
              Bimizza® 150/20
              Cimizt 30/150

              3rd Generation – ethinylestradiol + gestodene
              Millinette 30/75 and 20/75

              3rd Generation – ethinylestradiol + norgestimate
              Lizinna® 250/35 (replaces Cilique® 250/35)

               th
              4 Generation
              Yasella

              Prescribing note
              Yasmin and Qlaira are not approved for use in NHS Scotland by the SMC

              Combined hormonal contraceptives – transdermal
              Evra® patches (ethinylestradiol + norelgestromin)

              Prescribing note
              SMC had advised that Evra® patches should be restricted for use in women who have
              difficulties adhering to combined oral contraceptives

              Combined hormonal contraceptives – vaginal
              Nuvaring (ethinylestradiol + etonogestrel)




Section 3.2   Contraception devices

              Inter-uterine devices
              TT 380® Slimline 10 year IUD
              Short uterus – Mini TT 380® Slimline (5 year) Narrow os – Nova-
              T® 380 (5 year)
              Narrow os and short uterus CU-Safe® T 300 (5
              year)

              Diaphragms/caps -
              Seek advice from sexual health on the most cost effective product at the time of prescribing

Section 3.3   Contraception, emergency

              Copper IUD should be offered first line

              Hormonal Emergency Contraception
              Ulipristal acetate 30mg effective up to 120hrs
              Levonorgestrel 1.5mg effective up to 96hrs

              See FSRH guidance (December 2017 – updated 2023) for clarification on when Ulipristal
              or levonorgestrel is most appropriate, for changes in relation to weight/ unprotected sex
              during the 5 days prior to the estimated day of ovulation/ progestogen taken in the
              preceding 7 days or if progestogen to be quick started etc.
              Faculty of Sexual and Reproductive Healthcare guidance




                                                                                                             47
Section 3.4   Contraception, oral progestogen – only
              Desogestrel (12 hour window)

Section 3.5   LARC parenteral progestogen - only
              Medroxyprogesterone acetate 150mg/1ml (Depo-Provera®)

              Medroxyprogesterone acetate 104mg/0.65ml (Sayana Press®) for self-administration.

              LARC - Contraceptive implants
              Etonogestrel (Nexplanon®)

              LARC - Hormone releasing intra-uterine systems

              Levosert® (LNG 52mg)
               Benilixa® (LNG 52mg)
              Mirena® (LNG 52mg)
              Kyleena ® (LNG 19.5mg)
              Jaydess® (LNG 13.5mg)

              Prescribing notes:
              The FSRH supports extended use of any 52mg LNG-IUD for up to eight years for
              contraception if the user is under 45 years old at the time of insertion. Note that the use of
              Benilexa® and Levosert® for eight years is off-label. For Mirena® the licensed duration of use
              for endometrial protection as part of HRT is 4 years, however FSRH supports use of any
              52mg LNG IUD for endometrial protection as part of HRT for 5 years.

              Levosert® and Benilexa® are not licensed for endometrial protection as part of HRT.

              Fsrh-ceu-statement-extended-use-of-all-52mg-lng-iuds-for-up-to-eight-years-for-
              contraception.pdf


Section 4     Erectile and ejaculatory conditions


Section 4.1   Erectile dysfunction
              Prescription must be endorsed ‘SLS’ by the prescriber. Only allowed on the NHS as per
              criteria listed in BNF chapter 7.4.1
              Sildenafil tablets (Guidance states that no more than 8 per 4 week period should be
              prescribed )

              Alprostadil injection (Caverject Dual Chamber®)
              Alprostadil urethral cream (Vitaros®)


Section 4.2   Premature ejaculation
              Specialist treatment

Section 5.1   Polycystic ovary syndrome
              Metfromin – unlicensed indication

Section 7     Obstetrics
              Specialist initiation only


Section 7.1   Induction of labour
              Dinoprostone
              oxytocin

Section 7.2   Post-partum haemorrhage
              Oxytocin
              Tranexamic acid
              Ergotamine
              Carboprost
                                                                                                               48
               Ergotamine/oxytocin (syntometrine)


 Section 7.3   Pre-term labour
               Atosiban

 Section 7.4   Termination of pregnancy/Hospital management of non-viable pregnancy
               Mifepristone
               Misoprostol

               Hospital management - Ectopic pregnancy
               Methotrexate

               Hospital management- Suppression of Lactation
               Cabergoline

               Hospital management - Uterine hyperstimulation
               Terbutaline injection


 Section 8.1   Vaginal and vulval conditions

               Lichen sclerosus
               Clobetasol propionate 0.05% ointment -

               Vulval moisturizers (Can be used as a wash/ soap substitute)
               Epimax ointment
               Hydromol ointment
               Doublebase gel or equivalent emollient

               Vaginal Atrophy

                Product                                     Estrogen content
                Estriol 0.1% cream                          Estriol 500micrograms/applicator
                Estriol 0.01%                               Estriol 500micrograms/applicator
                Estradiol 10micrograms pessary (prescribe   Estradiol 10micrograms/pessary
                generically)
                Estring (change every 3 months)             Estradiol 7.5micrograms/day

               Symptom control
               Hyalofemme®
               Sylk® VM
               YES® VM

               Dysmenorrhoea
               Ibuprofen
               Paracetamol

               Oligomenorrhoea
               See section on combined oral contraception
               Medroxyprogesterone acetate




Back to Contents page




                                                                                               49
                                   BNF Chapter 8 – Malignant disease


For solid tumours please refer to SCAN: OOQS - The Oncology Online Quality System

For haematology please refer to WOSCAN: https://scottish.sharepoint.com/sites/WoSCANIntranet

Back to Contents page




                                                                                               50
                                  BNF Chapter 9 – Blood and Nutrition


                                     Blood and blood-forming organs


Section 1      Anaemias


Section 1.1    Atypical haemolytic uraemic syndrome &6Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria

               Ravulizumab – as per local guidance – specialist use only
Section 1.2    Iron deficiency anaemia

               Oral treatment
               Ferrous sulfate 200mg tablets (once daily dosing)

                Prescribing notes;
              The British Society of Gastroenterologists and NICE recommend that the initial treatment of
              iron deficiency anaemia should be with one tablet per day of ferrous sulphate, fumarate or
              gluconate. If not tolerated or if Hb does not rise after 28 days, a reduced dose of one tablet
              every other day, alternative oral preparations or parenteral iron should be considered. Patients
              should be monitored in the first 4 weeks for an Hb response to oral iron, and treatment should
              be continued for a period of around 3 months after normalisation of the Hb level, to ensure
              adequate repletion of the marrow iron stores. Modified release preparations release iron in the
              more distal small bowel beyond the areas of most active assimilation—they do not enhance
              iron absorption or reduce side effects, and their use is not recommended."

              Liquid iron can be used in adults where oral preparations are not appropriate or in paediatrics.

               Iron-Deficiency-Anaemia-in-Adults.pdf

               Parenteral treatment*
               Iron Dextran (Cosmofer®)
               Iron isomaltoside 1000 (Monofer®) – IV infusion only as per SMC

              Please refer to https://www.nhsdghandbook.co.uk/medical-handbook/parenteral-iron-in-adults-
              18-years/?handbook=medical

               MHRA Drug safety update Dec 2014: Intravenous iron and serious hypersensitivity
               reactions strengthened recommendations
               MHRA Drug Safety UpdateDec 2014: Intravenous iron and serious hypersensitivity reactions

Section 1.3    Megaloblastic anaemia
               Folic acid 5mg tablets
               Prescribing Note:
               Treatment normally required for 4 months with folic acid. Folic acid must not be used alone
               in undiagnosed megaloblastic anaemia due to risk of B12 deficiency and peripheral
               neuropathy)

               Hydroxocobalamin injection for the treatment of vitamin B12 deficiency (see CKS)

               For people with neurological involvement seek urgent specialist advice from a
               haematologist who will advise on treatment frequency.

               For people with no neurological involvement
               o Initially administer hydroxocobalamin 1 mg intramuscularly three times a week for 2
                   weeks.
               o The maintenance dose depends on whether the deficiency is diet related or not. For
                   people with B12 deficiency that is:
                       Not thought to be diet related — administer hydroxocobalamin 1 mg
                            intramuscularly every 2–3 months for life.
                       Thought to be diet related — consider oral cyanocobalamin tablets
                            prescribing guidance under review
                       In vegans, treatment may need to be life-long, whereas in other people with
                            dietary deficiency replacement treatment can be stopped once the vitamin

                                                                                                                 51
                          B12 levels have been corrected and the diet has improved.
              o   Give dietary advice about foods that are a good source of vitamin B12 — good
                  sources of vitamin B12 include:
                       Eggs.
                       Foods which have been fortified with vitamin B12 (for example some soy
                          products, and some breakfast cereals and breads) are good alternative
                          sources to meat, eggs, and dairy products.
                       Meat.
                       Milk and other dairy products
                       Salmon and cod

                                   Nutrition and Metabolic Disorders


Section 1     Fluid and Electrolyte imbalances


              Oral Bicarbonate – chronic acidotic states
              Sodium bicarbonate capsules

              Hypokalaemia
                     ®
              Sando-K effervescent tablets
                       ®
              Kay-Cee-L syrup

              Hyponatraemia
              Sodium chloride M/R tablets

              Hypocalcaemia
              Adcal® chewable tablet
              Calvive® 1000 effervescent tablets

              Hypomagnesaemia
                           ®
              Magnaspartate sachets
                                                                ®
              Magnesium glycerphosphate chewable tablets (Neomag )

              Hypophosphataemia
              Phosphate Sandoz® effervescent tablets

              Hyperkalaemia (mild to moderate)
              Calcium polystyrene sulphonate (Calcium resonium®)

              Oral Rehydration Salts
              Dioralyte® sachets
Section 1.2   Low blood volume
              Albumin/Gelaspan

Section 5.1   Coeliac disease
              See gluten-free formulary GFF-update-2022-1.pdf

Section 6     Vitamin deficiency

              Vitamin B group
              B6 – Pyridoxine tablets
              B1- Thiamine 50mg tablets
              Pabrinex® injection/infusion
              Vitamin B Co strong – in re-feeding syndrome for 10 days Overview | Nutrition support for
              adults: oral nutrition support, enteral tube feeding and parenteral nutrition | Guidance |
              NICE
              Prescribing notes:
              vitamin B complex is not recommended for prescribing
              MHRA Drug Safety Update Dec 2014: Pabrinex Allergic reactions

              Vitamin C – non formulary. Patients requiring vitamin C should be encouraged to eat vitamin
              c rich foods due to the high cost of this product



                                                                                                            52
              Vitamin D
              Alfacalcidol (renal patients)
                          ®
              Stexerol-D3 (2x 25,000iu) for 6 weeks then maintenance Value Pack Vitamin D3 1,000 IU
              daily for treatment of deficiency
              If swallowing difficulties: InVita D3 oral drops 25,000IU

              Ergocalciferol 300,000 IU/ml intramuscular injection – to be supplied by clinic.
              If necessary can also be obtained as single ampoule from DGRI pharmacy.
              Prescribing notes:
                Invita D3® can be mixed with food or luke warm water.



              Vitamin K
              Malabsorption syndromes (water-soluble preparation required):
              Menadiol sodium phosphate

              Fat soluble formula (not malabsorption):
              Phytomenadione

              Multivitamins
              Abidec ®drops
Section 6.1   Neural tube defects (prevention in pregnancy)

              Folic acid 400micrograms daily should be recommended for all women attempting to
                                   th
              conceive and until 12 week of pregnancy.
                                                              2
              Advise women who are obese (BMI of 30 kg/m or more) to take folic acid 5 mg daily starting
              at least one month before conception and continuing during the first trimester

              Women at high risk (those with epilepsy, or those with previously affected pregnancy) should
              be advised to take 5mg folic acid.
              Nutrition

              Oral Nutritional Supplements (ONS) should not be used as first line treatment for
              malnutrition. Food fortification via dietary measures should be encouraged first. ONS
              should ideally be prescribed on the recommendation of a Registered Dietitian and should
              always have an ACBS indication.

              Standard ACBS indications:
                  Disease-related malnutrition.
                  Short bowel syndrome.
                  Intractable malabsorption.
                  Pre-operative preparation of patients who are malnourished.
                  Proven inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
                  Following total gastrectomy.
                  Bowel fistula.

              Other products may be prescribed as advised by Dietitian
              Oral Nutritional Supplements (for use in adults)
              First Line Product:
                       Complan Shake (57g sachet reconstitute with 200ml whole milk, 1.6kcal/ml)

              Second Line Products:
              Milk based:
               Fortisip® Compact (low volume,125ml bottle, 2.4kcal/ml)
               Fortisip® Bottle (200ml bottle, 1.5kcal/ml)
               Ensure Plus® Milkshake Style (220ml bottle, 1.5kcal/ml)
              Juice based:
                      Fortijuce® (200ml bottle)
                      Ensure Plus® Juce (220ml bottle, 1.5kcal/ml)




                                                                                                             53
               Yogurt Style:
                      Fortisip® Yogurt Style (200ml bottle, 1.5kcal/ml))
                      Ensure Plus® Yogurt Style (220ml bottle, 1.5kcal/ml)

               Thickeners
                      Nutilis clear®, (not suitable for children <1yr except for failure to thrive)
                      Carobel Instant®

               For more information on managing malnutrition, including patient and carer information
               leaflets, please see: http://malnutritionpathway.co.uk or visit the Nutrition and Dietetic Patient
               and Carer Information Leaflets page on Beacon:
               http://hippo.citrix.dghealth.scot.nhs.uk/sorce/beacon/singlepageview.aspx?pii=589&row=76
               9&SPVPrimaryMenu=5&SPVReferrer=Patient_and_Carer_Information_Leaflets

Back to Contents page




                                                                                                                    54
                            BNF Chapter 10 – Musculoskeletal System


Section 1   Arthritis
            Please refer to the following protocols and guidance:
                  NICE guideline NG100: Rheumatoid arthritis in adults: management
                  NICE guideline NG65: Spondyloarthritis in over 16s: diagnosis and management
                  For DMARD monitoring protocols please refer to:
                    Beacon>DGRefHelp>Rheumatology>DMARD monitoring protocols
            Safety considerations
                  MHRA :MHRA: Methotrexate once-weekly for autoimmune diseases: new measures to
              reduce risk of fatal overdose due to inadvertent daily instead of weekly dosing
                  MHRA: Mycophenolate mofetil, mycophenolic acid: updated contraception advice for
              male patients Feb 2018
                  MHRA: Mycophenolate mofetil, mycophenolic acid: new pregnancy-prevention advice
              for women and men Dec 2015
                  MHRA DSU: Mycophenolate mofetil: pure red cell aplasia, July 2009
                  MHRA DSU: Mycophenolate mofetil (CellCept) and mycophenolic acid: risk of
              hypogammaglobulinaemia and risk of bronchiectasis, January 2015

                        MHRA DSU: Baricitinib (Olumiant▼): increased risk of diverticulitis, particularly in
              patients with risk factors
                  MHRA DSU tofacitinib-new measures to minimise risk of major adverse cardiovascular
              events and malignancies October 2021
              
            Rheumatoid arthritis – moderate to severe disease
            Immunosuppressants - *Specialist Initiation Only*

            DMARDs (all initiated in consultation with a specialist)
            Methotrexate (2.5mg tablets,once dose is stabilised, specialists may change to once weekly
            subcutaneous injection pre-filled pens (Metoject®))
            Patient should stay on same brand they are used to. Prescribe MTX injection by brand.
            Hydroxychloroquine tablets Leflunimode tablets
            Sulphsalazine EC tablets Azathioprine tablets
            Ciclosporin capsules – patients should be maintained on the same brand
            Cyclophosphamide
            Please note methotrexate should only be prescribed as multiples of the 2.5mg strength tablet
            once weekly

            TNF-alpha inhibitors
            Adalimumab SC Injection – preferred biosimilar Amgevita®
            Infliximab IV/SC Injection - preferred biosimilar Remsima®
            Etanercept SC Injection– preferred biosimilar Benepali®
            Certolizumab SC Injection
            Golimumab SC Injection

            CD-20 blocker
            Rituximab Infusion – preferred biosimilar Ruxience®

            IL-6 inhibitors
            Sarilumab SC Injection
            Tocilizumab SC Injection - preferred biosimilar Tyenne®

            CTLA-4 Blocker
            Abatacept SC Injection

            JAK inhibitors
            Filgotinib tablets
            Upadacitinib tablets
            Baricitinib tablets
            Tofacitinib tablets




                                                                                                                55
            Psoriatic Arthritis
            Immunosuppressants - *Specialist Initiation Only*

            TNF-alpha inhibitors
            Adalimumab SC Injection – preferred biosimilar Amgevita®
            Infliximab IV/SC Injection - preferred biosimilar Remsima®
            Etanercept SC Injection– preferred biosimilar Benepali®
            Certolizumab SC Injection
            Golimumab SC Injection

            IL-17 Inhibitors
            Secukinumab SC Injection
            Bimekizumab SC Injection
            Ixekizumab SC Injection

            IL-12/23
            Ustekinumab SC Injection - preferred biosimilar Uzpruvo®
            Guselkumab SC Injection

            JAK inhibitors
            Upadacitinib tablets
            Tofacitinib tablets

            PDE-4 inhibitor
            Apremilast tablets

            Ankylosing Spondylitis
            Naproxen
            Ibuprofen
            Paracetamol (+/- codeine) where NSAIDs are not suitable/tolerated

            Immunosuppressants - *Specialist Initiation Only*

            TNF-alpha inhibitors
            Adalimumab SC Injection – preferred biosimilar Amgevita®
            Infliximab IV/SC Injection - preferred biosimilar Remsima®
            Etanercept SC Injection– preferred biosimilar Benepali®
            Certolizumab SC Injection
            Golimumab SC Injection

            IL-17 Inhibitors
            Secukinumab SC Injection
            Bimekizumab SC Injection

            JAK inhibitors
            Upadacitinib tablets
            Tofacitinib tablets

            Still’s disease
            Anakinra injection - as per SMC 2104

            Giant Cell Arteritis (GCA) (adults)
            Tocilizumab prefilled syringe/pen – as per SMC 2014

            ANCA – Associated Vasculitis – under specialist management
            Induction: Glucocorticoids (prednisolone tablets, IV methylprednisolone), methotrexate,
            cyclophosphamide, Rituximab infusion – preferred biosimilar Ruxience®
            Maintenance: prednisolone tablets, rituxamab infusion – preferred biosimilar Ruxience®,
            azathioprine, mycophenolate mofetil, methotrexate

Section 2   Hyperuricaemia and Gout
                See Beacon>DGRefHelp>Rheumatology>Gout
                British society for Rheumatology guidelines for the management of gout 2017
                NICE CKS guidelines https://cks.nice.org.uk/topics/gout/

                                                                                                      56
               Acute attacks
               Naproxen
               Ibuprofen
               Colchicine 500mcg tablets BD – QDS
                      Total dose per course should not exceed 6mg, do not repeat course within 3 days
                      Avoid Colchicine in those receiving (or recently prescribed if renal impairment) strong
                 P-glycoprotein or CYP3A4 inhibitors eg clarithromycin. See SPC for colchicine
                      MHRA Colchicine: extremely toxic in overdose
               Prednisolone tablets 30mg ONCE daily for 5 days – if NSAID or colchicine contraindicated or
               cannot be tolerated
               Longterm prophylaxis of gout
               Allopurinol tablets
               Febuxostat tablets

 Section 3      Neuromuscular disorders See BNF for further information


 Section 3.1    Muscular dystrophy See BNF for further information


 Section 3.2   Myasthenia gravis and Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome
               Pyridostigmine tablets
               Neostigmine tablets

 Section 3.3   Myotonic disorders - See BNF for further information


 Section 3.4   Spasticity
               Baclofen tablets
               Diazepam tablets

 Section 4      Pain and inflammation in musculoskeletal disorders
                Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
                Naproxen
               Ibuprofen

               Safety considerations
                     MHRA: Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: reminder on renal failure and
                 impairment, May 2009
                     MHRA: Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: cardiovascular risk, October 2012
                     MHRA: NSAIDs and coxibs: balancing of cardiovascular and gastrointestinal risks,
                 December 2007 *
                     MHRA: Ketoprofen and ketorolac: gastrointestinal risk, December 2014 change to
                 hyperlink

 Section 5     Soft tissue and joint disorders
               Systemic corticosteroids oral
               Prednisolone tablets if prescribing oral steroids please refer to the HIGH DOSE Steroid Pre-
               treatment checklist in the clinical handbook:
               https://www.nhsdghandbook.co.uk/medical-handbook/high-dose-steroid-pre-treatment-
               checklist/?handbook
               Local corticosteroid injections
               Methylprednisolone acetate (Depo – Medrone) Triamcinolone
               acetonide (Kenalog)

 Section 5.1   Soft tissue disorders
               Rubefacients
               Ibuprofen 5%

Back to Contents page




                                                                                                                 57
                                           BNF Chapter 11 Eye

             WHERE POSSIBLE GENERIC DROPS ARE ENCOURAGED AS FIRST LINE
Section 1    Allergic and Inflammatory Eye Conditions

Section 1.1 Allergic Conjuctivitis
            Sodium Cromoglicate 2% Eye Drops – prescribe as Opticrom® in primary care 10ml (most
            cost effective size)
Section 1.2 Inflammatory Eye Conditions

              The severity of the inflammation determines the choice of steroid. Topical steroids should
              not be used for undiagnosed red eye. If red eye is due to herpes simplex, corticosteroids
              will aggravate this condition possibly leading to loss of vision or even loss of the eye.

              Prednisolone acetate 1% Eye Drops (most
              potent) Dexamethasone 0.1% Eye Drops
              Betamethasone 0.1% Eye/Ear/Nose Drops – prescribe as Vistamethasone® brand in primary
              care Prednisolone sodium phosphate 0.5% eye drops
              Fluorometholone eye drops* (least potent)

              Loteprednol 0.5% eye drops – specialist

              initiation only

              * Steroid eye drops can raise intra-ocular pressure (IOP) and therefore precipitate glaucoma
              in patients pre-disposed to chronic simple glaucoma. Evidence suggests that fluorometholone
              is less likely to raise IOP though this may be due to reduced penetration of the cornea.

              Corticosteroid Combinations with Anti-Infectives
              Dexamethasone (Maxitrol®) Eye Drops
              Betamethasone (Betnesol-N®) 0.1% Eye/Ear/Nose Drops
Section       Antimuscarinics
1.2a          Cyclopentolate 0.5% and 1% Eye Drops (5ml) or Minims Atropine 1% PF ensure Minims is
              prescribed
Section 2     Dry Eye Conditions

              Mild dry eye
              Hypromellose 0.3% Eye Drops

              Carmellose
              VIZcellose® 0.5% /1% p/f eye drops Stable for 3 months after opening and replaces
              Celluvisc®

              Paraffins
              Xailin Night® Gel pf

              Moderate dry eye
              Sodium Hyaluronate
              Blink Intensive Tears (0.2%) pf
              Eyeaze® pf                      (in place of Hylotears®/Hyloforte®/Xailin® HA in
              primary care) Optive fusion®

              Meibiamian Gland Deficiency Specialist initiation only
              Systane Balance®

              Immunosuppressant – severe dry eye Specialist initiation only
              Ciclosporin 0.1% eye drops (Ikervis®)
Section 3     Eye Infections

Section 3.1 Bacterial Eye Infection
            Prescribing Notes:
            Most cases of acute bacterial conjunctivitis are self-limiting. Treatment should be given if
            the condition has not resolved spontaneously after 5 days.


                                                                                                             58
            Antibacterials
            Chloramphenicol 1% Eye Ointment Available via Pharmacy
            First
            Chloramphenicol 0.5% Eye Drops Available via Pharmacy
            First
            Propamidine 0.1% Eye Drops (Brolene®)

            Antibacterials - Aminoglycosides
            Gentamicin 0.3% Eye/Ear Drops

            Antibacterials - Cephalosporins, Second
            Generation
            Cefuroxime topical drops

            Antibacterials - Macrolides
            Azithromycin 15mg/g Eye Drops
            pf

            Antibacterials -
            Quinolones Ciprofloxacin
            0.3% Eye Drops
            Ofloxacin 0.3% eye drops

            Antiprotozoals
            Seek specialist advice
Section 3.2 Viral Eye Infection
            Ganciclovir 0.15% Eye Gel
Section 4   Eye Procedures
            Antimuscarinics
            Minims Tropicamide 1% Eye Drops

            Antiseptics and Disinfectants – Iodine
            Products Minims Povidone Iodine 5%

            Diagnostic Agents – Dyes
            Minims Fluorescein 1%
            Minims Fluorescein 2%

            Miotics – Parasympathomimetics
            Acetylcholine 20mg Powder & Solvent for Intraocular Irrigation – Miochol E

            Sympathomimetics –
            Vasoconstrictor
            Minims Phenylepherine 2.5%
            Minims Phenylepherine 10%
Section 4.1 Post-operative pain and inflammation
            Anaesthetics –
            Local
            Minims Tetracaine
            1%
            Minims Fluorescein with
            Lidocaine Minims
            Proxymetacaine 0.5%

            Anaesthetics – Non Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs
            Ketorolac 0.5% Eye Drops
            Nepafanac 1% eye drops – as per SMC advice – for the reduction in risk of post operative
            macular oedema associated with cataract surgery in diabetic patients.
Section 5   Glaucoma and Ocular Hypertension
            Beta-adrenoceptor
            blockers
            Timolol 0.25% Eye
            Drops
            Timolol 0.5% Eye
            Drops


                                                                                                       59
               Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors
               Acetazolamide 250mg Tablets
               Acetazolamide 250 MR Capsules
               Acetazolamide 500mg powder for solution for injection vials

               Dorzolamide 20mg/ml eye drops
               Brinzolamide 10mg/ml eye drops

               Combination products
               Dorzolamide/Timolol
               Brinzolamide/timolol
               (Azarga®)
               Azarga® allows patient to administer fewer drops compared to separate administrations

               Miotics->
               Parasympathomimetics
               Pilocarpine 1% or 2%

               Prostaglandin analogues and
               Prostamides
               Travoprost 40mcg/ml eye drops
               Latanoprost 50micrograms/ml eye
               drops

               Combination products
               Latanoprost 50mcg/ml with Timolol 5mg/ml eye drops

               Sympathomimetics - Alpha2-adrenoceptor
               agonists
               Brimonidine 0.2% eye drops
               Apraclonidine 5% eye drops
               Brimonidine should not be used by patient on tricyclic antidepressants or MAOIs, on in
               those under 5 years of age.

               Combination products
               Brimonidine 2mg/ml with Timolol 5mg/ml

               Preservative free drops
               Formulations with preservative are significantly cheaper than preservative-free preparations.
               Latanoprost minims (Monopost®) SMC restricted to proven sensitivity to BAK preservative)
               Latanoprost/timolol (Fixapost®) UD SMC restricted to proven sensitivity to preservative
               Eylamdo® PF (dorzolamdie/timolol) multidose bottle can be considered in those
               requiring this combination who have a proven sensitivity to BAK. Multi dose bottle are
               less expensive than single dose vials.
               Eydelto® PF (dorzolamide) multidose bottle can be considered in those with a proven
               sensitivity to BAK. Multidose bottle are more cost effective than single dose vials.
 Section 6     Retinal disorders

 Section 6.1 Macular degeneration
             Aflibercept (Eylea®)
             Ranibizumab (Lucentis®)
 Section 6.2 Macular Oedema
             Aflibercept(Eylea)
             Ranibizumab
             (Lucentis®)
             Dexamethasone (Ozurdex®) as per SMC
             Fluocinolone (Iluvien®) – IPTR as per local protocol
Back to Contents page




                                                                                                               60
                                BNF Chapter 12 Ear, nose and oropharynx

Section 1    Otitis externa
             https://cks.nice.org.uk/topics/otitis-externa/

             For mild case:
             Acetic acid 2% (Earcalm) can be purchased over the counter

             If red and swollen with minimal discharge:

             Lower potency steroid: Prednisolone sodium phosphate 0.5% drops
             Higher potency steroid: Betamethasone sodium phosphate 0.1% drops

             If discharge/debris prevents product application, consider cleaning the ear canal first.

             Combined steroid + anti-infective product:
             Betnesol N
             Otomize

             For fungal infections:
             Clotrimazole 1% solution

             Investigations are rarely helpful but consider an ear swab if treatment fails or otitis externa
             occurs frequently
Section 2    Removal of ear wax
             Olive oil drops
             Sodium bicarbonate ear drops
Nose         Nasal Staphylocaccal infection
Section 2    Naspetin cream (contains peanut oil)
             Fucidin Cream

             For MRSA decolonisation regimes see beacon
             Nasal decolonisation of MRSA:
             Mupirocin nasal (Bactroban nasal)
Section 3    Nasal Inflammation
             Beclomethasone dipropionate 50micrograms per 1 dose nasal spray
             Mometasone fuorate 50micrograms per 1 dose nasal spray
Oropharynx   https://bnf.nice.org.uk/treatment-summary/treatment-of-dry-mouth.html
Section 1
             Xerotin Oral spray
             Biotene oralbalance Gel
             Salivix Pastilles
Section 2    Oral Hygiene
             Chlorhexidine Mouthwash
             Hydrogen peroxide Mouthwash BP (Vincent’s infection)
Section 3    Oral ulceration and inflammation
             Saline mouthwash made with warm water for mild cases
             Benzydaime oral rinse
             Benzydamine oromucosal spray
             +/- Chlorhexidine mouthwash (for secondary bacterial infections)
             Hydrocortisone muco-adhesive buccal tablets
             Beclomethasone 500microgram soluble tablets as a mouthwash
             Beclomethasone inhaler (unlicensed use – apply directly to the lesion)
Section 4    Oral bacterial infection – see antimicrobial guidelines and BNF
             https://bnf.nice.org.uk/treatment-summary/oropharyngeal-infections-antibacterial-therapy.html
Section 5    Oral fungal infections
             Nystatin Suspension
             Miconazole oromucosal gel
             Fluconazole capsules when topic not sutable or lesions non-reponsive to topical treatment
Back to Contents page




                                                                                                               61
                                            BNF Chapter 13 Skin

   1. Dry and Scaling skin disorders
   2. Infections of the skin
   3. Inflammatory skin conditions
   4. Perspiration
   5. Pruitus
   6. Rosacea and acne
   7. Scalp and Hair conditions
   8. Skin cleaners, antiseptics and desloughing agents
   9. Skin disfigurement
   10. Sun protection and photodamage
          12. Warts and calluses


Section 1      Dry and Scaling skin disorders
               MHRA Drug safety update- Emollients and risk of severe and fatal burns: new resources
               available
               Epimax Original® cream
               Epimax Moisturising® cream (equivalent to E45® cream and replaces Exocream®)
               Epimax Isomol® gel(equivalent to Doublebase®)
               Epimax Ointment® (not be be applied to face)

               Epimax Oatmeal® cream (equivalent to Aveeno®)
               If a pump is required zerobase 500g is most cost effective

               Products containing urea
               Balneum® cream

               Soap Substitutes
               Please note these can be purchased cheaply over the counter;
               Epimax (can be held under warm/hot running water to give a foamy bath additive)
               Epimax Original® cream
               QV Gentle® wash

               Emollient Bath Additives
               Bath/shower emollients without antiseptic
               Emulsifying ointment (can be held under warm/hot running water to give a foamy bath additive)
               Hydromol® Bath and Shower
               QV Gentle® Wash

               Other products as recommended by Dermatology
               Bath/shower products with antiseptic - for use where infection is present or a frequent
               complication
               Dermol® 200 shower emollient
               Dermol 500 lotion
               Dermol® 600 bath emollient

               Barrier Preparations
               Conotrane® cream
               Medi Derma – S barrier cream
               Third line: Liquid paraffin:white soft paraffin (50:50) could be considered as an alternative if
               Conotrane® not available.
Section 2      Infections of the skin
               Refer to antibiotic guidelines on DGRegf Help NHS Dumfries & Galloway Antimicrobial
               Handbook | Right Decisions




                                                                                                                  62
Section2.1     Bacterial skin infections
               See the MRSA Policy – Best Practice Guidelines - on BEACONIC-129 MRSA Policy.pdf
              Mupirocin 2% ointment
              Chlorhexidine body wash 4%
              Octenidine ointment
              Octenidine body wash

              Impetigo
               Reserve topical antibiotics for very localised lesions to reduce the risk of resistance. Fusidic acid
               2% cream (available from community pharmacies via Patient Group Direction (PGD)
               Fucibet® cream
               Crystacide® 1% cream for localised areas
               Any queries contact Dermatology

Section 2.2   Fungal skin infections
              Clotrimazole cream
              Terbinafine 1% cream 30g
              Miconazole 2% cream
              If fungal infection suspected, please send off for skin scrapping first. This is to help reduce
              inappropriate prescription of creams
Section 2.3   Parasitic skin infections
              Please refer to NHS Dumfries and Galloway Public Health Policies for any changes in advice.

              Scabies: Scabies | Right Decisions
              Permethrin 5% cream Malathion 0.5%
              Ivermectin (on specialist advice)

              Head lice: Head lice | Health topics A to Z | CKS | NICE
              Mousse, crème rinse and shampoo preparations are ineffective and should be avoided.
              The following are available through the Pharmacy First Scotland service at community
              pharmacies
              Dimeticone 4% lotion
              Dimeticone 4% cutaneous spray
              Nitcomb - M2 or S1
              Nitty Gritty NitFree Steel Nit Comb
              Malathion 0.5% aqueous lotion


              Pubic lice
              DGRefHelp: Pubic Lice | Right Decisions
              Malathion 0.5% aqueous lotion (Derbac M)
              Permethrin 5% cream (Lyclear Dermal cream)

Section 2.4   Viral skin infections
              Aciclovir 5% cream (herpes simplex)
              Please perform viral skin swab for confirmation

Section 3     Inflammatory skin conditions

Section 3.1   Eczema and psoriasis
              Ointments are recommended by Dermatology
              As guided by ScriptSwitch in primary care for availability due to supply issues :

              Mild corticosteroid:
              Hydrocortisone 1%
              Moderately potent corticosteroid:
              Audavate RD ®
              Betnovate-RD® Eumovate®
              Potent corticosteroid:
              Audavate ®
              Betnovate® Locoid® Mometasone

                                                                                                                 63
Very potent corticosteroid:
Clobetasol propionate 0.05%. When available- ClobaDerm® is the preferred brand. Length
of treatment as per dermatologist
Steroids with antimicrobials (for short term use e.g. 7 days in infected eczema or as per
dermatologist until skin is clear and back to normal)
Fucibet®
Preparations for psoriasis
Emollient see section 1
Mild/moderate topical corticosteroids for face/flexures see 13.3.1 Silkis®
(Calcitriol)
Dovonex® 30g ointment (Calcipotriol)
Dovobet® 60g gel/ointment (Betamethasone dipropionate 0.05%, Calcipotriol 50mcg)
Enstilar® foam spray (Betamethasone dipropionate 0.05%, Calcipotriol 50mcg)
Wynzora cream ®
Exorex® lotion (coal tar solution 5%)

Scalp Preparations
Betacap® Scalp Application (Betamethasone valerate 0.1%)
Diprosalic® Scalp Application (Betamethasone 0.05%, Salicylic acid 2%) 2nd line
Dovobet® gel (Betamethasone dipropionate 0.05%, Calcipotriol 50mcg). Enstilar
foam spray
Sebco® (Coal tar 12%, Salicylic acid 2%)
Etrivex shampoo
 Synalar® gel


Specialist Use Drugs for Psoriasis

** Adalimumab – restricted to specialist use, prescribe by brand **
Amgevita® SC injection - preferred biosimilar
For treatment of chronic plaque psoriasis in adult patients who failed to respond to or have a
contraindication to or are intolerant to other systemic therapy including ciclosporin methotrexate
or PUVA.

** Ustekinumab - restricted to specialist use, prescribe by brand **
Uzpruvo® SC▼ injection - preferred biosimilar

For the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults who failed to respond to, or
who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapies including ciclosporin,
methotrexate and psoralen and UVA treatment (PUVA).

For the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adolescent patients from the age of
12 years and older, who are inadequately controlled by, or are intolerant to, other systemic
therapies or phototherapies.

** Etanercept - restricted to specialist use, prescribe by brand **

Benepali® SC injection – preferred biosimilar

Treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who failed to respond to, or who
have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy, including ciclosporin,
methotrexate or psoralen and ultraviolet-A light (PUVA)

** Deucravacitinib (Sotyktu®) tablets – restricted to specialist use **

For the treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for
systemic therapy. For use in patients who have failed to respond to standard systemic therapies
(including ciclosporin, methotrexate and phototherapy), are intolerant to, or have a
contraindication to these treatments.



                                                                                                  64
** Tildrakizumab SC (Ilumetri®) injection - restricted to specialist use **

For the treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for
systemic therapy. For use in patients who have failed to respond to conventional systemic
therapies (including ciclosporin, methotrexate and phototherapy), are intolerant to, or have a
contraindication to these treatments.

** Certolizumab pegol SC (Cimzia®) injection – restricted to specialist use **

For the treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for
systemic therapy. For use in patients who have failed to respond to standard systemic therapies
(including ciclosporin, methotrexate and phototherapy), are intolerant to, or have a
contraindication to these treatments.

** Secukinumab SC (Cosentyx®) injection – restricted to specialist use **

For the treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for
systemic therapy. For use in patients who have failed to respond to standard systemic therapies
(including ciclosporin, methotrexate and phototherapy), are intolerant to, or have a
contraindication to these treatments.

** Guselkumab SC (Tremfya®) injection – restricted to specialist use **

For the treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for
systemic therapy. For use in patients who have failed to respond to conventional systemic
therapies (including ciclosporin, methotrexate and phototherapy), are intolerant to, or have a
contraindication to these treatments.

** Risankizumab SC (Skyrizi®) injection – restricted to specialist use **

For the treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for
systemic therapy. For use in patients who have failed to respond to conventional systemic
therapies (including ciclosporin, methotrexate and phototherapy), are intolerant to, or have a
contraindication to these treatments.

** Bimekizumab SC (Bimzelx®) injection – restricted to specialist use **
For the treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for
systemic therapy. For use in patients who have failed to respond to standard systemic therapies
(including ciclosporin, methotrexate and phototherapy), are intolerant to, or have a
contraindication to these treatments.

** Brodalumab SC (Kyntheum®) injection – restricted to specialist use **

For the treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for
systemic therapy. For use in patients who have failed to respond to standard systemic therapies
(including ciclosporin, methotrexate and phototherapy), are intolerant to, or have a
contraindication to these treatments.

** Apremilast (Otezla®) tablets – restricted to specialist use **

For the treatment of moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adult patients who failed to
respond to or who have a contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy including
ciclosporin, methotrexate or psoralen and ultraviolet-A light (PUVA).

** Dimethyl fumarate (Skilarence®) tablets – restricted to specialist use **

For the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults in need of systemic medicinal
therapy. For use in patients in whom other non-biologic systemic treatments (methotrexate,
ciclosporin and acitretin) are not appropriate or have failed and who are considered unsuitable for
biologic therapy given their current disease state or personal preference.




                                                                                                 65
            Specialist Use Drugs for Eczema
            Atopic Eczema

            ** Dupilumab SC (Dupixent®) injection – restricted to specialist use **

            For the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis in adult patients who are candidates for
            systemic therapy. For use in patients who have had an inadequate response to existing systemic
            immunosuppressants such as ciclosporin, or in whom such treatment is considered unsuitable.



            ** Baracitinib (Olumiant®) tablets – restricted to specialist use **

            For the treatment of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in adult patients who are candidates
            for systemic therapy who have failed at least one current systemic immunosuppressant due to
            intolerance, contraindication or inadequate disease control.
            ** Upadacitinib (Rinvoq®) tablets – restricted to specialist use **

            For the treatment of moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in adults and adolescents 12 years and
            older who are candidates for systemic therapy. For patients who have had an inadequate
            response to at least one conventional systemic immunosuppressant such as ciclosporin, or in
            whom such treatment is considered unsuitable.

            ** Abrocitinib (Cibinqo®) tablets – restricted to specialist use **

            For the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis in adults and adolescents 12 years and
            older who are candidates for systemic therapy. For use in patients who have not responded to, or
            have lost response to, at least one systemic immunosuppressant therapy, or in whom these are
            contraindicated or not tolerated.

            ** Tralokinumab SC▼ (Adtralza®) injection – restricted to specialist use **

            For the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis in adult patients who are candidates for
            systemic therapy. For use in patients who have had an inadequate response to an existing
            systemic immunosuppressant such as ciclosporin, or in whom such treatment is considered
            unsuitable.

            ** Lebrikizumab SC▼ (Ebglyss®) injection – restricted to specialist use **

            For the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis in adults and adolescents 12 years and
            older with a body weight of at least 40 kg who are candidates for systemic therapy. For use in
            patients who have had an inadequate response to an existing systemic immunosuppressant such
            as ciclosporin, or in whom such treatment is considered unsuitable and where a biologic would
            otherwise be offered


Section 4   Perspiration
            Anhydrol Forte® (aluminium chloride hexahydrate 20%)




                                                                                                             66
Section 4.1   Hyperhidrosis
              Pro- Banthine® - 15mg tds at least one hour before food. If side effects unbearable, take with
              food.

              Hidradenitis Suppurativa (specialist use)

              ** Adalimumab – restricted to specialist use, prescribe by brand **
              Amgevita® SC injection - preferred biosimilar
              For treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) (acne inversa) in
              adolescents from 12 years of age with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS
              therapy.
              For the treatment of active moderate to severe HS (acne inversa) in adult patients with an
              inadequate response to conventional systemic HS therapy.

              ** Secukinumab SC (Cosentyx®) injection – restricted to specialist use **

              For the treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurative (HS) (acne inversa) in
              adults with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS therapy.


Section 5     Pruritus

              Nodular prurigo

              ** Dupilumab SC (Dupixent®) injection – restricted to specialist use **

              For the treatment of adults with moderate-to-severe prurigo nodularis (PN) who are candidates
              for systemic therapy.


Section 6     Rosacea and acne


Section 6.1   Acne
              See DGRefHelp for treatment pathway Acne | Right Decisions
              MHRA Drug safety update Isotretinoin (Roaccutane▼): reminder of important risks and
              precautions

              Topical treatment: Management should always include topical treatments, with the choice based
              on the type and severity of acne:
                     Initial treatment for non-inflammatory acne:
                    o           Topical retinoid (e.g., Differin®), starting with 2-3 nights per week and increasing
                    frequency as tolerated.
                    o           Azelaic acid (e.g., Finacea gel, Skinoren cream), which is well tolerated in
                    preteens and teenagers.
                     Inadequate response to initial treatment:
                    o           Combination of Benzoyl peroxide (BPO) and topical retinoid (e.g., Epiduo®).
                    o           Review after 8 weeks, then every 4 months.
                    o           If still no response treat as inflammatory acne below.
                     Initial treatment for inflammatory acne:
                    o           Benzoyl peroxide (BPO) or
                    o           Topical retinoid (e.g., Differin®), starting with 2-3 nights per week and increasing
                    frequency as tolerated or
                    o           Combination of Benzoyl peroxide (BPO) and topical retinoid (e.g., Epiduo®).
                    o           BPO and topical antibiotic (Duac) or retinoid/antibiotic (Treclin)
                     Moderate inflammatory acne:
                    o           Systemic antibiotics in combination with topical agents (BPO, Epiduo®, Differin®,
                    or Azelaic acid). Tetracyclines are contraindicated in pregnancy and under 12s.
                               Lymecycline 408 mg OD,
                               Oxytetracycline 500 mg BD,
                               Doxycycline 100 mg OD,
                               Erythromycin 500 mg BD

                                                                                                                 67
                    o          For female patients, Dianette® can be considered in combination with topical
                    agents.
                    Severe inflammatory acne:
                    o          Refer all patients with severe acne for specialist assessment and consideration of
                    oral isotretinoin
                    o          If the patient is female, ensure they are using appropriate contraception prior to
                    referral for isotretinoin.

Section 6.2   Rosacea
              Rozex® cream/gel (Metronidazole 0.75%)
              Finacea® gel (Azelaic acid 15%)
              Soolantra ® cream
              Oxytetracycline tablets

Section 7     Scalp and hair conditions
              Alphosyl® 2 in 1 shampoo S
              elsun® shampoo
              Nizoral® (ketoconazole shampoo)


Section 7.1   Alopecia see BNF

              Severe alopecia areata

              ** Ritlecitinib (Litfulo®) Capsules – restricted to specialist use **
              Treatment of severe alopecia areata in adults and adolescents aged 12 years and over
Section 7.2   Hirsutism
              Co-cyprindiol Cimizt® 30/150

Section 8     Skin cleansers, antiseptic and desloughing agents
              See the MRSA Policy – Best Practice Guidelines - on BEACON IC-129 MRSA Policy.pdf

Section 9     Skin disfigurement
              Camouflages - ACBS for disfiguring skin lesions
              Dermacolor®

Section 10    Sun protection and photodamage
              Sunscreen preparations - ACBS for skin protection in photodermatoses
              Anthelios Sunscreen lotion SPF 50+
              Uvistat Sun Cream SPF 50

              Photodamage
              Mild: Diclofenac sodium 3% gel (Solareze®)
              Moderate/Severe (specialist advice): tirbanibulin 10mg/g ointment (Klisyri®) Fluorouracil
              5% cream (Efudix®
              Imiquimod 3.75% (Zyclara®)
              Imiquimod 5% (Aldara®)

Section 12    Warts and calluses
              Right Decisions Dermatology Pathway is available: Viral Warts | Right Decisions
              Please note some products can be purchased cheaply over the counter. The
              following are available through the Pharmacy First Scotland service at community
              pharmacies:
              Occlusal 26% Solution
              Salactol Paint
              Salatac gel
              Bazuka Extra Strength 26% gel (Diomed Developments Ltd)

              Warts
              DGRefHelp Advice from NHS D&G Sexual Health for the management of anogenital warts is
              available: Management | Right Decisions
              Podophyllotoxin 0.15% (Warticon®) or 0.5% alcoholic solution (Condyline®

                                                                                                              68
               Imiquimod (Aldara®)


Back to Contents page




                                     69
                           BNF Chapter 14 Immunological Products and Vaccines

    For advice on immunological products/vaccines see the BNF and the green book
    https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/immunisation-against-infectious-disease-the-green-
    book

    All prescriptions for malaria prophylaxis should be on a private prescription if required. (Chloroquine and/or
    Proguanil can be purchased from pharmacies in the UK).
    Patients should be advised by the surgery to visit fitfortravel.nhs.uk to check specific disease prevention
    recommendations for the country they will be visiting. This website also provides useful guidance on
    patients travelling with medication.
    Many practices have their own procedure for handling and charging for travel vaccinations, medications
    and advice however, the following guidance may be helpful.
    No charge (covered by GMS contract for patients registered with practice):

            Cholera, Hepatitis A, Paratyphoid, Poliomyelitis, Smallpox, Typhoid
    Charge applies (not remunerated by the NHS as part of additional services):

           Japanese encephalitis and tick-borne encephalitis, meningitis vaccines, rabies,
            tuberculosis (TB), yellow fever.
    NOTE There is no funding for provision of Hepatitis B vaccination for travel. Technically the practice may
    charge any patient a private fee, and write a private prescription for hepatitis B for travel, as long as it is
    not combined with hepatitis A, which must be given on the NHS [further clarification is given in the BMA
    website (bma.org.uk) – searching under hepatitis B and travel].


Back to Contents page




                                                                                                                      70
