
 Grampian Area Formulary 
   [img: netFormulary] 
 [img: NHS] 
 Grampian Area 
 Formulary 
 Home 
 About 
 Admin 
 netFormulary 
 Chapters 
 Medicines A-Z 
 News 
 Mobile 
 Reports 
 Contact Us 
  Search 
  Introduction 
 INTRODUCTION 
 The aim of the formulary 
 The main aim of this formulary is to promote safe, evidence-based, cost-effective prescribing.
 Limiting the range of medicines included in the formulary and promoting the use of generic medicines where appropriate:-
 Enhances safety through familiarity with the medicines in use in the hospital by all staff involved in the prescribing, dispensing and administration of medicines
 Ensures efficient use of NHS resources
 Ensures efficient use of limited storage space both within the hospital pharmacies and on the wards, enhances good stock control and reduces the pharmacy stock holding
 Development of the formulary
 The formulary has been drawn up following full and wide consultation with consultant medical staff, senior pharmacists and other interested parties and has been approved by the Drugs and Therapeutics Group. 
The most up to date version will be accessible and maintained in an electronic format on the UHMB intranet. Updates are made monthly following the joint Drug and Therapeutics 
Group meetings.
 How should the formulary be used?
 Formulary drugs, including the range of approved preparations for each drug, are listed 
according to the BNF classification system. Unlicensed drugs and preparations approved for use are included in the most relevant section.
 First, second, and occasionally third line drugs are indicated where appropriate. First line 
drugs should be used unless there is a contraindication; the patient has suffered an adverseeffect, or has not responded to the first line drug.
 The formulary is not intended to replace the BNF which will need to be referred to for 
information on licensed indications, contraindications, cautions, side-effects, interactions and dosage etc. (also available online at http://www.bnf.org ).
 Does the formulary apply to out-patient prescribing including referrals to GPs?
 In general yes, as it is our aim to promote safe, evidence-based, cost effective prescribing in primary care also. However there are some medicines that are not stocked by the hospital pharmacies and hence are not included in the formulary simply because we would not expect them to be initiated whilst patients are in hospital or in out-patients e.g. topical preparations for acne, drugs for smoking cessation, HRT (only a very limited range of NRT & HRT is stocked).
...
 [img: NetFormulary] 
