 
 Insulins (Formulary: Endocrine) | Right Decisions 
 Skip to main content
 [img: NHS Scotland Logo] 
 Right Decision Service: supporting decisions for Scotland's health and care
 [img: Healthcare Improvement Scotland Logo] 
 Right Decisions 
 All resources 
 Organisations 
 Topics 
 Learning & support 
 How to deliver RDS tools 
 Feedback 
 Menu 
 Search 
 Search for toolkits, guidelines and other information: 
 Search
 Right Decisions
 TAM (Treatments and Medicines) NHS Highland
 FORMULARIES
 HIGHLAND FORMULARY
 ENDOCRINE SYSTEM (Formulary)
 Back
 Diabetes (Formulary: Endocrine)
 Insulins (Formulary: Endocrine)
 Insulins (Formulary: Endocrine)
 TAM (Treatments and Medicines) NHS Highland
 NHS Highland
 For a table of insulin types and compatible devices see: Devices for diabetes (Formulary: Endocrine) | Right Decisions . 
 MHRA alert: Insulins (all types): risk of cutaneous amyloidosis at injection site.  Cutaneous amyloidosis at the injection site has been reported in patients using insulin and this may affect glycaemic control. Remind patients to rotate injection sites within the same body region. (September 2020) ( www.gov.uk ).
 Insulin preparations should be initiated by appropriately trained individuals. Thereafter, tailor therapy to the patient's needs.
 Type 2 patients who are newly prescribed insulin should usually be started on once- daily Insuman® Basal given at bedtime. Long-acting recombinant human insulin analogues (eg Levemir®, Abasaglar®, Lantus®, Toujeo®) are much more expensive and are not required for the majority of patients with type 2 diabetes, however they may be useful for patients requiring help administering insulin or if there are concerns regarding hypoglycaemia.
 Choose devices and insulin on the basis of patient suitability and review regularly; refer to the insulins table for prescribing guidance.
 Changes should, where possible, be implemented when current patient supplies have been used up. Patients whose diabetes is stable should remain on their current insulin regimen unless a change is clinically indicated.
 A needle clipping (chopping) device consisting of a clipper to remove a needle from its hub and a container from which cut-off needles cannot be retrieved, can be prescribed for patients to use in the community. It is designed to hold 1500 needles; it is unsuitable for use with lancets. In hospitals, needle clipping devices can be ordered from Supplies for patients at discharge.
 Containers for sharps are available on prescription in primary care, however arrangements for their disposal must be agreed with the prescriber.
 If insulin administration is being carried out to a patient by a healthcare professional then a safety engineered device must be used.
 Rapid acting insulins (Formulary: Endocrine)
 Intermediate acting insulins (Formulary: Endocrine)
 Intermediate acting with rapid acting insulins (Formulary: Endocrine)
 Long-acting insulins (Formulary: Endocrine)
 Right Decision Service: supporting decisions for Scotland's health and care
 The Right Decision Service: Scotland's national decision support platform
 Terms and conditions of your use of the Right Decisions Platform (RDP)
 Content provider terms and conditions of use of the Right Decisions Platform (RDP)
 Accessibility & browser/device compatibility
 Using screen readers
 Equality and Human Rights Impact Assessment (EQIA)
 Downloads
 Download the app on the Apple store 
 Download the app on the Google Play store 
 Powered by
 QURIS v7.30.3 © 2026.
 Back to the top 
