 
 Devices for diabetes (Formulary: Endocrine) | Right Decisions 
 Skip to main content
 [img: NHS Scotland Logo] 
 Right Decision Service: supporting decisions for Scotland's health and care
 [img: Healthcare Improvement Scotland Logo] 
 Right Decisions 
 All resources 
 Organisations 
 Topics 
 Learning & support 
 How to deliver RDS tools 
 Feedback 
 Menu 
 Search 
 Search for toolkits, guidelines and other information: 
 Search
 Right Decisions
 TAM (Treatments and Medicines) NHS Highland
 FORMULARIES
 HIGHLAND FORMULARY
 ENDOCRINE SYSTEM (Formulary)
 Back
 Diabetes (Formulary: Endocrine)
 Devices for diabetes (Formulary: Endocrine)
 Print this page
 Devices for diabetes (Formulary: Endocrine)
 TAM (Treatments and Medicines) NHS Highland
 NHS Highland
 ! 
 Warning 
 What's new / Latest updates
 25/08/26 (v1.12): 
 Removed 'BD' from BD Micro-Fine Ultra 4mm/32 gauge and BD AutoShield Duo 5mm/30 gauge.
 08/07/26 (v1.11): 
 Updated the Insulin / pen compatibility charts to the latest versions.
 01/06/26 (v1.10): 
 Changed Freestyle Libre 3 to Freestyle Libre 3 Plus.
 Amended: 'Can be used for up to 14 days' to 15 days.
 Added: 'Has improved Bluetooth to enable linking to insulin pump Apps'.
 Removed: 'When a new ‘reader’ is ordered an envelope will be sent to return the old reader/meter to Abbot for recycling.  For further information, see:  website '.
 07/05/26 (v1.9): Changed BD Viva needles to Viva needles.
 13/04/26 (v1.8): Removed: Dexcom ONE (discontinued)
 22/01/26 (v1.7): 
 Reusable cartridge pens table added. 
 Added 'For further information on insulin types and compatible devices, see: Insulin, Devices & Profiles V5 '.
 05/12/25: (v1.6)  Removed from Accu-Chek Instant meter: Children with diabetes
 18/11/25 (v1.5) Added: FastClix finger prickers to be used with CareSens Dual meters for children.
 29/09/25 (v1.4):  Added new section 'Insulin pens' with Lilly pen compatibility chart.
 17/09/25 (v1.3): Added: Meter 'Supplied by company. GP practices to keep a stock of Accu-chek and CareSens meters.' Strips and lancets 'To be prescribed.' 
 24/07/25:  FreeStyle Libre 3 and FreeStyle Libre 3 PLUS sensor kits added.
 06/08/25:  Dexcom ONE CGM system: added text 'This product is now discontinued'.
 Different meters on the market all require different testing strips/devices. Stocking many types of meter is potentially wasteful and can be confusing for patients and health-care professionals. The guidance given below is intended to help match glucose meters to individual requirements, bearing in mind that many of the type 2 diabetes population DO NOT require a multi-function meter. Therefore it is recommended that the  meters listed below are used in NHS Highland.
  All meters are subject to inaccuracies arising from:
 Poor technique:  lack of hand washing can lead to contaminated samples giving an inaccurate result.  Wash hands with soap and water before taking a sample. Using just hand sanitiser may alter the blood glucose result. 
 Insufficient blood on the test strip: all of the advised meters use a capillary fill system so the strip ‘sucks up’ the blood rather than it being applied to the top of the strip. If the blood is incorrectly applied the meter will not work.
 Temperature: meters and strips are designed to be most accurate at room temperature. If the meter is too cold it may not function.
 Humidity will also affect test strips. They should be stored in the container with the top closed and used within manufacturers’ recommended time after opening.
 Disposal of blood glucose meters  Spirit Healthcare are able to collect old blood glucose meters (both their own meters and other companies' meters).  They recycle the meters and ensure none go to landfill.  The email address to contact is:  cs@spirit-healthcare.co.uk 
 Avoid comparing results from different meters as different meters will provide varying readings leading to confusion. 
Which patients should have glucose monitoring? 
 Patients who SHOULD monitor glucose 
 Patients who should be CONSIDERED for glucose monitoring 
 Patients who do NOT need to monitor glucose 
 Individuals with insulin treated diabetes or being considered for insulin
 Individuals with type 2 diabetes at risk of hypoglycaemia
 Individuals who require to undertake blood glucose monitoring under DVLA regulations ( www.gov.uk/diabetes-driving) 
 Pregnant women with diabetes
 On steroids
 At risk of hypoglycaemia
 Elderly on sulfonylurea
 At initiation of therapy
 Renal impairment
 High alcohol intake
 Agreed management plan
 Patients with type 2 diabetes managed with:
 Diet and exercise
 Combinations of:
metformin, pioglitazone, SGLT2 inhibitors (dapagliflozin, empagliflozin) DPP-4 inhibitors (sitagliptin, linagliptin) and GLP-1 analogues (liraglutide, exenatide) in the absence of medication known to cause hypoglycaemia, ie sulfonylureas and insulin
 Inappropriate glucose monitoring should be changed and stopped, if it is not required. 
How often to test? 
 Testing UPTO 4 times per day   
 Testing MORE THAN 4 times per day 
 Is appropriate for: 
 Patients with type 2 diabetes using or being considered for insulin injectable therapy
 Patients advised on an individual basis by an appropriate health care professional
 Patients requiring short-term glucose testing.
 May be required for:  
 Patients with type 1 diabetes
 Children
 Evidence of impaired hypoglycaemia awareness
 During pregnancy (including gestational diabetes)
 Patients managed with a continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII by pump)
 Control is poor or unstable; reduce testing frequency again when control is improved
 Specific patients as advised by the specialist team
 Patients who are carbohydrate counting
 Other selected circumstances, eg for occupational reasons.
Capillary blood glucose monitoring (BGM) 
 For patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes NOT on an insulin pump 
 Meter
 Supplied by company. 
GP practices to keep a stock of Accu-chek and CareSens meters.  
 Indication 
 Strips & lancets
 To be prescribed
 Accu-Chek Instant 
 Best for a basic economical blood glucose meter. 
 Can be linked to MySugr app to support review of blood glucose levels remotely by healthcare professionals. 
 Colour grading on meter to support patient knowledge of target range of glucose levels.
 Includes FastClix finger-pricker for FastClix lancets. 
 Adults with type 2 diabetes 
 Gestational diabetes 
 If patients are unable to use, eg visual problems, contact specialist services for an alternative. 
 Accu-Chek Instant glucose strips 
 FastClix lancets 
 Enclosed in drum to minimise sharps injury. No need for separate sharps container.
 Sharps container only required if prescribed non-safety needles for insulin.
 CareSens Dual Meter 
 Tests blood glucose & ketones
 Adults with type 1 diabetes 
 Children with diabetes 
 NOT for use in neonates 
 If patients are unable to use, contact specialist services for an alternative.
 CareSens PRO strips 
 KetoSens strips 
 Adults: supply CareSens lancets 
 Children: supply (reusable) FastClix finger pricker and FastClix lancets  
 Lancets are enclosed in drum to minimise sharps injury. No need for separate sharps container.
 Sharps container only required if prescribed non-safety needles for insulin.
 FreeStyle Precision Pro meter 
 Blood glucose monitoring: all hospital locations
 Blood ketone monitoring: specialist areas only.
 Hospital inpatients 
 FreeStyle Precision Pro glucose strips 
 FreeStyle Precision Pro ketone strips 
 Only as directed by Biochemistry
 Vitrex sterile safety lancet 
Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) systems 
 MHRA advice:  Insulin pumps and continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) equipment: guidance for users on reporting suspected adverse incidents and safety concerns to the MHRA’s Yellow Card scheme (October 2024) ( www.gov.uk ).
 Continuous glucose monitoring measures real-time interstitial glucose levels. 
 CGMs are Specialist recommendation only, as per the eligibility criteria below. 
 Adults: 
 GPs can ONLY prescribe CGM for individuals identified by the Adult Diabetes Team who are eligible based on clinical need and the eligibility criteria below
 Adult eligibility criteria: 
 Individuals with diabetes who are attending diabetes specialist services and treated with intensive insulin therapy, with multiple daily insulin injections, or insulin pump therapy, who are already performing multiple (5 or more) fingerprick blood glucose tests per day.
 Individuals with recently developed impaired awareness of hypoglycaemia who are not yet candidates for (more costly) continuous glucose monitoring systems.
 Women planning pregnancy.
 Those who required a third party to perform monitoring, or where dexterity or disability denote that conventional testing is difficult or impossible.
 Other criteria:  
 Deemed by the team to have the required knowledge and skills to effectively self-manage their diabetes. This may include having undertaken a recognised diabetes structured education programme (eg HEIDI), and/or 1 to 1 carbohydrate counting.
 Completion of the on-line Libre Academy modules at:  https://freestylediabetes.co.uk/freestyle-libre/academy . Agreement to attend a locally provided flash glucose monitoring education session, or an on-line equivalent, if appropriate.
 To agree to review glucose a minimum of six times per day.
 To use sensors as recommended.
 To agree to share glucose monitoring data with the diabetes clinic and complete any associated clinical questionnaires.
 Ongoing prescription:  
 Determined by the specialist diabetes team at review appointments.
 Requires effective use of the technology to improve self-management, eg, reduction in hypoglycaemia, improvement in HbA1c, reduction in hospital admissions.
 Paediatric patients: 
 GPs will be notified by letter by the Paediatric Diabetes Team if a specific patient has met all the requirements for these to be safely prescribed as per NICE NG18 
 Tel: 01463 701321 or email:  nhshighland.childdiabetes@nhs.scot  for any enquiries. 
 Offer real-time continuous glucose monitoring (rtCGM) to all children and young people with type 1 diabetes, alongside education to support children and young people, and their families and carers, to use it.
 Monitor and review the child or young person's use of CGM as part of reviewing their diabetes care plan, and explain to them the importance of continuously wearing the device. 
 If the child or young person is not using their CGM device at least 70% of the time
 ask if they are having problems with their device.
 look at ways to address any problems or concerns to improve their use of the device, including further education and emotional and psychological support. 
 Commissioners, providers and healthcare professionals should address inequalities in CGM access and uptake by:
 monitoring who is using CGM
 identifying groups who are eligible but who have a lower uptake
 making plans to engage with these groups to encourage them to consider CGM.
 When prescribing CGMs, continue to supply blood glucose monitoring strips (on repeat or acute prescription) for the patient to order when needed, as the patient will still need to perform finger prick testing of blood glucose levels. 
 Patients with type 1 diabetes, or who require to ketone test, will still require a supply of blood ketone testing strips.  
 CGM system 
 Device is based on patient choice. The devices use different adhesives and therefore patients may find one device sticks better than another.
 All CGM devices are water resistant (eg shower, swimming)
 FreeStyle Libre 2 PLUS is licensed for use on the back of the arm only.
 Dexcom ONE+ is approved for use on arm and abdomen (all ages) and the upper buttock (2 to 17 years).
 FreeStyle Libre 2 system 
 2-month supply:  2 x 2 FreeStyle Libre 2 PLUS sensors
 Can be used for up to 15 days
 Most patients will not require a 'reader' as monitoring can be done via mobile phone. Readers can be ordered for those patients who do not have a compatible mobile phone.
 When a new ‘reader’ is ordered an envelope will be sent to return the old reader/ meter to Abbot for recycling. For further information, see: website .
 Dexcom ONE+ system 
 2-month supply:  6 x Dexcom One+ sensors
 All-in-one sensor/ transmitter. No need for a separate transmitter 
 Can be used for up to 10 days, with 12 hour grace period for sensor replacement
 Info: 
 Dexcom: Pharmacy pages & FAQs 
 Dexcom: Learn the basics 
 Note: 
 Dexcom ONE CGM system is discontinued.  If changing to Decom ONE+ patient will need to download the relevant app.
Patient with type 1 diabetes on insulin pump 
 For paediatric patient enquiries: contact the Paediatric Diabetes Team directly.
 Tel: 01463 701321 or email: nhshighland.childdiabetes@nhs.scot   
 Pump 
 Indication 
 Strips & Lancets 
 Medtronic 780G insulin pump 
 Adults with type 1 diabetes 
 Children as advised by the Paediatric Diabetes Team
 Accu-Chek Guide Link meter 
 AccuChek Guide strips 
 FastClix lancets 
 Enclosed in drum to minimise sharps injury. No need for separate sharps container.
 Ypsomed insulin pump 
 Adults with type 1 diabetes 
 No specific meter linked to pump 
 Medtrum insulin pump  
 Adults with type 1 diabetes 
 No specific meter linked to pump 
 Medtronic 640G insulin pump  
 Adults with type 1 diabetes 
 For existing patients only. NOT for new patients
 Contour Next Link USB meter  
 Contour Next strips 
 Contour lancets 
 Omnipod insulin pump 
 Adults with type 1 diabetes 
 For existing patients only. NOT for new patients
 Omnipod handset 
 FreeStyle Lite strips 
 FreeStyle lancets 
 FreeStyle Libre 3 PLUS CGM system 
 For individuals using a compatible insulin pump with hybrid closed loop functionality eg Ypsomed / CamAPS FX.
 2-month supply: 2 x 2 FreeStyle Libre 3 PLUS sensor kits
 Sensor kit 
 Can be used for up to 15 days
 Is water-resistant (eg shower, swimming)
Adults with type 1 diabetes who use carb advisor 
 There is no longer a specific device for those 'carb counting'. Consideration can be given to mobile apps eg. My Sugr app and MyLife app.
Urinalysis 
 Ketostix test strips 
 for detection of ketones in urine 
Insulin / pen compatibility chart 
 For information on insulin types and compatible devices, see Diabetes Specialist Nurse Forum table: Insulin, Devices & Profiles V5 . 
 Below is an extract showing the reusable pens (penfill) and the insulins that are compatible with them. 
 * Re-usable cartridge pens can only be used with company specific insulin 3ml cartridges
Needles for pre-filled and reusable pen injectors 
 Place in therapy 
 Needles 
 Notes 
 FIRST LINE
 Most cost effective
 Viva 4mm/32 gauge 
 Pack of 90
 For adults who self-administer their own insulin.
 For individual paediatric cases as determined by the paediatric team.
 SECOND LINE 
 Those unable to use first line option
 Micro-Fine Ultra 4mm/32 gauge 
 Pack of 100
 specialist recommendation only
 Diabetic team recommendation only for those patients who are unable to use Viva needles. 
 ALTERNATIVE  
 Less cost-effective 
 AutoShield Duo 5mm/30 gauge  
 Pack of 100
 Only to be used: 
 In settings where third-party administration is required, eg, administration by district nursing or family member. 
 For paediatric use where safety of exposed needles are a concern, eg, school environments. 
 Where dexterity issues or fear of needles makes injecting difficult with standard needles. 
 Editorial Information 
 Last reviewed: 
 24/04/2025
 Next review date: 
 30/04/2028
 Author(s): 
 Endocrinology, Paediatrics.
 Version: 
 1.12
 Approved By: 
 TAM Subgroup of the ADTC
 Reviewer name(s): 
 F Wilson, Diabetes Specialist Nurse, Community, M Sutherland, Diabetes Specialist Nurse, Community, F Ballantyne, Diabetes Specialist Nurse, Paediatrics, H Peel, Diabetic Nurse, Secondary Care, A Delaye, Diabetes Specialist Nurse, Pumps, K Maclean, Health Protection Nurse Specialist, Gestational Diabetes.
 Document Id: 
 F395
 Right Decision Service: supporting decisions for Scotland's health and care
 The Right Decision Service: Scotland's national decision support platform
 Terms and conditions of your use of the Right Decisions Platform (RDP)
 Content provider terms and conditions of use of the Right Decisions Platform (RDP)
 Accessibility & browser/device compatibility
 Using screen readers
 Equality and Human Rights Impact Assessment (EQIA)
 Downloads
 Download the app on the Apple store 
 Download the app on the Google Play store 
 Powered by
 QURIS v7.30.3 © 2026.
 Back to the top 
