 
 Introduction to NHSL Joint Adult Formulary | Right Decisions 
 Skip to main content
 [img: NHS Scotland Logo] 
 Right Decision Service: supporting decisions for Scotland's health and care
 [img: Healthcare Improvement Scotland Logo] 
 Right Decisions 
 All resources 
 Organisations 
 Topics 
 Learning & support 
 How to deliver RDS tools 
 Feedback 
 Menu 
 Search 
 Search for toolkits, guidelines and other information: 
 Search
 Right Decisions
 NHSL Medicines Guidance
 Back
 Joint Adult Formulary
 Introduction to NHSL Joint Adult Formulary
 Introduction to NHSL Joint Adult Formulary
 NHSL Medicines Guidance
 NHS Lanarkshire
 ! 
 Warning 
 The Joint Adult Formulary has been developed to promote the safe, efficient and effective use of medicines and devices within NHS Lanarkshire. The formulary covers both primary and secondary care prescribing.
 There is a collaborative approach to deciding which medicines and devices are included. For each therapeutic area, stakeholders from across Lanarkshire have met to consider evidence base, newly emerging medicines/devices, current prescribing patterns and relative costs. The final content of the formulary has been approved and endorsed by the Area Drug and Therapeutics Committee (ADTC).
 The function of the formulary is to support the clinician to make informed prescribing decisions. The information provided does not replace clinical or professional judgement.
 Links are provided for information and convenience only. We cannot accept responsibility for the information found there. A link does not imply endorsement of a site; likewise, not linking to a particular site does not imply lack of endorsement.
 West of Scotland Regional Formulary 
 The NHS Lanarkshire Joint Adult Formulary is currently undergoing review for transition to the West of Scotland Regional Formulary. As the West of Scotland Regional Formulary chapters are launched, links will be added to the Lanarkshire Formulary to re-direct users to the new site. Please see the West of Scotland Regional Formulary website for more information. 
 Review Dates 
 The formulary is an evolving and dynamic resource. The ‘last reviewed’ date of 31st January 2022 refers to the content migration date from the previous formulary website. The ‘next review’ date of 31st December 2026 refers to a proposed full chapter review date. This can be subject to change. There will be ongoing updates to formulary content between these dates. Please be aware the review dates do not reflect these ongoing changes. 
 Contact Us 
 Please direct all formulary related comments and queries to medsguidance@lanarkshire.scot.nhs.uk .
NHSL Joint Adult Formulary Key 
 To indicate the category of a formulary medicine, updated sections adopt the following key:
 Preferred list (P) : First-line formulary choices.
 Total list (T) : Alternative choices when preferred list options not effective/not tolerated,  or not indicated .
 Specialist initiation (S 1 ) : Specialist initiation, or on the advice of a Consultant or Specialist Practitioner in this therapeutic area. Continuation in primary care is acceptable.
 Specialist use only (S 2 ) : Supply via hospital, Homecare Service or a hospital based prescription (HBP) for dispensing by community pharmacy. Not prescribed in primary care setting.
Formulary Amendments 
 Amendment requests from NHSL clinicians are welcome to ensure that formulary choices are appropriate and up-to-date.
 The NHS Lanarkshire Joint Adult Formulary is currently undergoing review for transition to the West of Scotland Regional Formulary . As the West of Scotland Regional Formulary chapters are launched, links will be added to the Lanarkshire Formulary to re-direct users to the new site. As such, to discuss any updates or amendments to the Formulary, please contact the Medicines Policy and Guidance team who will be able to assist. 
 The Medicines Policy and Guidance team can be contacted via email at medsguidance@lanarkshire.scot.nhs.uk . 
 Clinicians may be asked to present their request to the ADTC.
 Editorial Information 
 Last reviewed: 
 31/01/2022
 Next review date: 
 31/12/2026
 Author(s): 
 NHSL.
 Version: 
 Please refer to the introduction section for an explanation of the review dates above.
 Approved By: 
 ADTC
 Reviewer name(s): 
 ADTC.
 Document Id: 
 April 2024
 Right Decision Service: supporting decisions for Scotland's health and care
 The Right Decision Service: Scotland's national decision support platform
 Terms and conditions of your use of the Right Decisions Platform (RDP)
 Content provider terms and conditions of use of the Right Decisions Platform (RDP)
 Accessibility & browser/device compatibility
 Using screen readers
 Equality and Human Rights Impact Assessment (EQIA)
 Downloads
 Download the app on the Apple store 
 Download the app on the Google Play store 
 Powered by
 QURIS v7.30.3 © 2026.
 Back to the top 
