 
 Pharmacy and Prescribing – NHS Orkney 
 Skip to content 
 [img: NHS Orkney] NHS Orkney 
 Menu
 Search 
 Search this website 
 Search 
 Close Search 
 Menu 
 Close Menu 
 Home 
 About Us 
 Services 
 Patients & Visitors 
 Your Health 
 Feedback & Involvement 
 Working for us 
 News 
 Home 
 Our Services 
 Pharmacy and Prescribing
 Back to   Our Services 
 Pharmacy and Prescribing
 The aim of the Pharmacy Department is to provide high quality, patient centred and timely pharmaceutical care within The Balfour and throughout NHS Orkney.
The department promotes clinically effective and cost effective prescribing.
The Pharmacy is open during the following hours:
 Monday – Friday: 8.30am – 4.30pm
 If the Pharmacy is closed during the above times, the pharmacist can be paged via switchboard.
 FreeStyle Libre®
 Following approval by Scottish Health & Technologies Group, NHS Orkney is pleased to announce the introduction of FreeStyle Libre®  glucose monitoring system for patients with Type 1 Diabetes.
 The FreeStyle Libre® flash glucose monitoring system is a sensor based, factory-calibrated system that measures interstitial fluid glucose levels, rather than blood glucose levels, in people (aged 4 years and over) with Diabetes Mellitus.
 Further information, criteria and eligibility can be found  here 
 Gluten Free Food Service
 Once the GP practice has given you your registration form, you will need to take it to a community pharmacy of your choice so you can be registered. You should stay with the same pharmacy for your gluten free foods. If you need to move pharmacy, you must go back to your GP and get a new registration form completed.
 Gluten free foods available through your community pharmacy must be chosen from the NHS Orkney Gluten-Free Formulary. Once you have chosen the foods you would like to order, complete an order form with items up to the maximum number of units you are allowed per month.To make the ordering process simpler, an order form has been produced listing all products allowed on the service for you to complete each month The community pharmacist will use this form to order your gluten free foods and will contact you when they are ready to collect. You should only submit one order form each month.
 Each month, a new order form must be completed and handed in to the pharmacy. You can choose different products each month up to the maximum number of units you have been allocated.
 If you are an adult with coeliac disease (not Dermatitis Herpetiformis), when you register at the community pharmacy you will be offered an annual health check. This health check will ensure that you have a good understanding of coeliac disease and how to manage your condition. If any problems or concerns are highlighted the community pharmacy will write back to your GP and ask them to arrange follow up.
 What are the benefits of using the service?
 You will have more control over the amount and type of foods you can order each month (up to an agreed amount). 
 You will have the convenience of not having to visit the GP each time you need a prescription for gluten free foods.
 You will have more control over the prescribable gluten free foods and variety in your diet.
 You will have the freedom to change your order each month so you can try different foods
 Gluten Free Food Service Leaflet 
 Gluten Free Food Service Formulary 
 Gluten Free Food Service Order Form  
 Reducing Medicines Waste
 Medicines waste is medicines that cannot be used, this may be because the medicine is expired, damaged or is no longer required for treatment.
 It is estimated that 1 in 10 medicines in Scotland are wasted, and unused medicines cost the NHS approximately £300m per year. Not only does it cost the NHS the price of the unused medicine, but also the cost of the consultation with a healthcare professional and of preparing the prescription. Find out more about reducing medicines waste on our dedicated page here:
 Reducing Medicines Waste 
 Useful websites
 NHS Grampian Formulary 
 Primary Care Pharmacy Team
 Our Primary Care Pharmacy Team works across all GP Practices in NHS Orkney. To find out more about our team, what we do and who we are including how to contact us please click on the link below. 
 Primary Care Pharmacy Team 
 Patient Group Directions (PGDs)
 Patient Group Directions (PGDs) provide a legal framework that allows some registered healthcare professionals to supply and/or administer a specified medicine (or medicines) to a pre-defined group of patients without them having to see a prescriber.  PGDs are reserved for situations in which this offers an advantage for patient care, without compromising patient safety.
 Within NHS Orkney, a Memorandum of Understanding has been signed to support a regional approach to the management of PGDs. 
 Plese click here for the link to:  Policy for North of Scotland Patient Group Direction (PGD) Working for Healthcare Professionals in NHS Grampian, Highland, Orkney, Shetland, Tayside and Western Isles. 
 All healthcare professionals who use PGDs to deliver care to patients are expected to complete the NoS Patient Group Directions eLearning module available on TURAS Learn.
 NHS Orkney Approved Patient Group Directions can be accessed via the NHS Orkney Policies Microsoft Team available at:  ORK NHS Orkney Policies | Clinical Documentation | Microsoft Teams   (Login Required).
 NoS Patient Group Directions eLearning can be found on TURAS Learn at:  Prescribing and Medicines Management | Turas | Learn (nhs.scot)  (Login Required).
 For more information
 01856 888060
 Our Services 
 Aging Well Service 
 Alcohol and Drugs Partnership (ADP) 
 Armed Forces and Veterans 
 Audiology 
 Cardiology 
 Chaplaincy and Spiritual Care 
 Children's Rights 
 Children and Young Peoples Physiotherapy Service 
 Children and Young Peoples Occupational Therapy Service 
 Community Nursing 
 Day Unit 
 Dental and Oral Health 
 Dialysis Unit 
 Dietetics 
 Emergency Department 
 Finance and Procurement 
 GP Practices 
 Health Visitors 
 Hospital Services 
 Infection Prevention 
 Inpatient Unit 1 
 Inpatient Unit 2 
 MacMillan 
 Maternity 
 Media/Communications 
 Mental Health Services 
 Needle Exchange Programme 
 Neurology 
 NHS Orkney Sexual Assault Referral Centre (SARC) 
 Orkney Health and Care 
 Out of Hours 
 Outpatients Department 
 Palliative Care 
 Patient Travel 
 Pharmacy and Prescribing Reducing medicines waste 
 Podiatry 
 Practice Education 
 Public Health 
 Public Protection (Safeguarding) 
 Radiology 
 School Health 
 Sexual Health 
 Speech and Language Therapy 
 Get in Touch
 We shall be delighted to hear from you, so here are the various ways of contacting us .
 Telephone: 01856 888100
Out of Hours: 01856 888000
Email: ork.feedback@nhs.scot 
 Socials
 Facebook 
 X 
 YouTube 
 LinkedIn 
 Instagram 
 Support links
 Accessibility 
 Cookies 
 Privacy 
 Publications 
 Contact Us 
 © Copyright,
 NHS Orkney 2026
