NHS Circular:
MSAN (2024) 53

Chief Medical Officer Directorate
Pharmacy and Medicines Division
                                                                          
                                                                                        16 December 2025
Medicine Supply Alert Notice

Fiasp® FlexTouch® (insulin aspart) 100units/ml solution for injection 3ml pre-
filled pens - Update

Priority:    Level 2*
Valid until: product has been discontinued

Issue

1. Fiasp® FlexTouch® (insulin aspart) 100units/ml pre-filled pens have been discontinued.
   Supplies were exhausted in March 2024.
2. Fiasp® Penfill® (insulin aspart) 100units/ml solution for injection 3ml cartridges remain available
   and can support increased demand.
3. This MSAN supersedes MSAN(2024)05 issued on 6 March 2024.


Advice and Actions

4. Prescribers should:

   •    not initiate new patients on Fiasp® FlexTouch® 100units/ml pre-filled pens;
   •    consider prescribing Fiasp® Penfill® cartridges, which are able to support the market during
        this time, taking into account the patient’s manual dexterity and ability to use the new device
        correctly;
   •    when prescribing Fiasp® Penfill® cartridges, ensure that the patient is prescribed a Novo
        Nordisk insulin delivery system and appropriate needles (see Additional Information);
   •    seek advice from specialist diabetes team on use of an alternative insulin, if the above
        option is not considered suitable; and
   •    ensure that all patients initiated on a new device are counselled on the change in device,
        and provided with training on their use, including signposting to training videos (see
        Supporting Information), as well as potential need for closer monitoring of blood glucose
        levels.

5. Pharmacists and dispensing doctors should:

   •    ensure that all patients presenting with a new prescription for Fiasp® Penfill® cartridges have
        access to an appropriate device and needles, and can use the device correctly (see
        Additional Information); and
   •    ensure that all patients are counselled on the change in device and the potential need for
        closer monitoring of blood glucose levels during this time.

*https://www.nss.nhs.scot/media/1842/medicine-supply-alert-notices-definitions-of-classifications-21-october-
2019.pdf
Additional Information

Clinical Information

6. Insulin aspart is licensed for the treatment of diabetes mellitus in adults, adolescents, and
   children from the age of 1 year.
7. Fiasp® is a newer formulation of the existing fast-acting insulin aspart product NovoRapid®. The
   addition of nicotinamide (vitamin B3) in Fiasp® results in a more rapid initial absorption of insulin
   compared to conventional NovoRapid®. Fiasp® is a mealtime insulin for subcutaneous
   administration up to 2 minutes before the start of the meal, with the option to administer up to
   20 minutes after starting the meal.
8. NICE guidance recommends that rapid-acting insulin analogues are injected before meals. A
   mealtime insulin should be given only if the patient has a strong preference.
9. Fiasp® and NovoRapid® are not interchangeable due to differences in bioavailability; Fiasp® has
   a quicker onset of action and shorter duration.

Counselling points for clinicians, dispensing doctors and pharmacists

10. Fiasp® Penfill® cartridges can be used with the NovoPen 6® and NovoPen Echo Plus® devices,
    which are prescribable on a GP10.
11. It should be noted that Fiasp® FlexTouch® pre-filled pens are calibrated to adjust the dose in 1-
    unit increments and:

   •   NovoPen 6® dials in 1-unit increments
   •   NovoPen Echo Plus® dials in ½ unit increments.

12. Ensure that patients have access to a suitable device and that the patient is thoroughly
    counselled on how to use this device. Further information on these devices can be found from
    the links below:

   •   Smart insulin pens - JDRF, the type 1 diabetes charity
   •   NOVOPEN® 6 and NOVOPEN ECHO® PLUS resources

Links to further information

   •   SmPC for Fiasp® FlexTouch® prefilled pens
   •   SmPC for Fiasp® Penfill® cartridges
   •   BNF Insulin aspart
   •   BNF: Insulin preparations
   •   Novo Nordisk quick guide to using NovoPen® 6 or NovoPen Echo® Plus
   •   NICE guidance: Type 1 diabetes in adults (insulin therapy)


Specialist Pharmacy Service (SPS) website

13. The UK Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) in conjunction with SPS have launched
    an online Medicines Supply Tool, which provides up to date information about medicine supply
   issues. To access the online Medicines Supply Tool you need to register with the SPS website.
   Registration for access to the website is available to UK healthcare professionals and
   organisations providing NHS healthcare. The tool is located under the Tools tab and then click
   on the Medicines Supply option.

14. Prescribers, pharmacy professionals, and pharmacy procurement leads in Scotland are
    encouraged to register with the SPS website and use its Medicine Supply Tool in order to stay
    up to date concerning medicines supply disruptions. Please be aware that while medicines
    supply issues will appear on the SPS website, some of the recommended actions may not
    always be appropriate / relevant within the Scottish context.


Enquiries
15. Enquiries from Health Boards or healthcare professionals should be directed in the first instance
    to PharmacyTeam@gov.scot (primary care) or NSS.NHSSMedicineShortages@nhs.scot
    (secondary care).
