 
 Insulin therapy | Right Decisions 
 Skip to main content
 [img: NHS Scotland Logo] 
 Right Decision Service: supporting decisions for Scotland's health and care
 [img: Healthcare Improvement Scotland Logo] 
 Right Decisions 
 All resources 
 Organisations 
 Topics 
 Learning & support 
 How to deliver RDS tools 
 Feedback 
 Menu 
 Search 
 Search for toolkits, guidelines and other information: 
 Search
 Right Decisions
 Type 2 diabetes mellitus: Quality prescribing strategy - a guide for improvement
 Back
 Diabetes medicines
 Insulin therapy
 Insulin therapy
 Type 2 diabetes mellitus: Quality prescribing strategy - a guide for improvement
 Scottish Government Effective Prescribing & Therapeutics Division
 [img: Polypharmacy icon of two pills] 
 Insulin is required by some people for treatment of T2DM, usually if other pharmacological therapy is no longer effective. Often this can be because of prolonged excess insulin secretion as a result of insulin resistance. It is not necessarily due to a failure of the individual to comply with their diet and/or treatment regimen.
 Red flags for people requiring insulin urgently. These are:
 weight loss without dietary restriction;
 marked symptoms of hyperglycaemia despite increased diabetes treatment; or
 if self-glucose monitoring, continued high blood sugars despite increased diabetes treatment.
 Insulin regimens should be adapted to the person considering lifestyle factors, carbohydrate counting and individual choice, with appropriate targets for glycaemic control. There are often psychological barriers to insulin therapy, and these should be considered. Other diabetes treatments should be reviewed and discontinued where appropriate, but metformin, if tolerated, should always be continued.
 Human isophane insulin is recommended as the first-choice regimen. Long-acting insulin analogues should not be considered unless the patient experiences recurrent episodes of hypoglycaemia or requires assistance with insulin injection. For most people with T2DM, long-acting insulin analogues offer no significant benefit over human isophane insulin, and are more expensive.
 For full list of insulins available in the UK see Insulins in the UK list.
 Insulin therapy in order of increasing complexity: 
 Once or twice daily intermediate (NPH) human insulin
 Once daily long-acting insulin analogue
 Once or twice daily mixed human insulin (normally 25 or 30% quick acting insulin)
 Once or twice daily intermediate human; or once daily long-acting insulin analogue, with once daily quick acting human insulin taken before main meals (basal plus regimen)
 Once daily long-acting insulin analogue with pre-prandial quick acting insulin (basal bolus or multiple daily injection).
 Right Decision Service: supporting decisions for Scotland's health and care
 The Right Decision Service: Scotland's national decision support platform
 Terms and conditions of your use of the Right Decisions Platform (RDP)
 Content provider terms and conditions of use of the Right Decisions Platform (RDP)
 Accessibility & browser/device compatibility
 Using screen readers
 Equality and Human Rights Impact Assessment (EQIA)
 Downloads
 Download the app on the Apple store 
 Download the app on the Google Play store 
 Powered by
 QURIS v7.30.3 © 2026.
 Back to the top 
