 
 Pharmacy and Prescribing – NHS Shetland 
 Skip to content
 Skip to navigation
 [img: Visit the NHS Shetland home page] 
 [img: Print Fallback Logo] 
 Sign in 
 Register 
 Menu 
 Search Search our site 
 Close search 
 Search this site
 Search 
 View menu 
 Close menu 
 Services
 Right Care, Right Place 
 Gilbert Bain Hospital 
 Community Health 
 Patient Travel 
 Services 
 Corporate
 About Us 
 Work With Us 
 Contact Us 
 Staff Resources 
 View menu 
 Pharmacy and Prescribing
 Home
 About Us
 Pharmacy and Prescribing 
 Using Medicines Safely and Effectively 
 Using medications safely and correctly is very important to ensure that they have the best chance to help you. All Pharmacists are trained as highly skilled clinical experts in medication, and are able to give you advice and make recommendations about your medications. Pharmacists are available for discussions or advice.
 Accessing Pharmacy Advice and Care 
 Your pharmacist can also provide you with advice when treating yourself and your family for common conditions and issues as well as providing you with appropriate treatment - a service available to everyone registered with a GP in Scotland . It is especially important when you are already taking medicines for long term conditions, to seek a Pharmacist's advice when treating yourself. Even though some medicines are available "over the counter", they are still very powerful and may affect other medications.
 Click this link to find a Shetland Pharmacy. 
 If you have any questions or problems with your medicines please talk to your pharmacist. Pharmacists are available for discussions or advice about medicines. You can access these professionals in the Community Pharmacies, and will also find them in your Health Centre and Hospital.
 Medicines Use in Shetland 
 Many medicines can be prescribed in Shetland, those available are those within the Grampian Formulary. New Medicines take time to be considered, and are first reviewed by the Scottish Medicines Consortium (SMC) and NHS Shetland work with NHS Grampian to consider the local use of them afterwards. The Grampian Formulary and Scottish Medicines Consortium can be accessed on the links below. Within Shetland, the Area Drug and Therapeutics Committee is responsible for overseeing Medicines use and approval, supported by Clinical Pharmacists working across all areas of the community and services.
 Additional Links 
 Pharmaceutical Care Services Plan 
 Scottish Medicines Consortium 
 NHS Grampian Formulary 
 NHS Shetland Facebook 
 NHS Shetland Youtube Channel 
 NHS Shetland Twitter 
 2026 © NHS Shetland
 Contact NHS Shetland 
 Privacy Notice 
 Accessibility 
 Designed and Powered by Jadu .
 [img: NHS Inform] 
 [img: Visit the NHS Shetland home page] 
 [img: Print Fallback Logo] 
