
 Tayside Area Formulary Formulary 
   [img: netFormulary] 
 [img: NHS] 
 Tayside Area Formulary 
 Home 
 About 
 Admin 
 netFormulary 
 Chapters 
 Medicines A-Z 
 News 
 Mobile 
 Reports 
 Contact Us 
  Search 
  Introduction 
 ABOUT THE FORMULARY   
 Welcome to the Tayside Area Formulary (TAF). The formulary is intended to guide choice and awareness of a rational selection of medicines. The medicines listed within the formulary provide first and second-line treatment options for the majority of conditions seen in both primary and secondary care, and will thus promote continuity of care.    For adults, the Medicines Advisory Group follows a robust process for consideration of medicines to be added to the Tayside Area formulary as follows.
      1)  Medicines should be licensed and accepted for use by the Scottish Medicines Consortium
      2)  Selection is based on clinical efficacy, national guidance, safety, patient acceptability and cost-effectiveness.
 Unlicensed medicines or licensed medicines used out with their license (off label) would NOT be considered for addition to the formulary or specialist list unless there was a good evidence base, safety profile or was nationally accepted practice.
 The Medicines Advisory Group, in partnership with Managed Clinical Networks and other primary and secondary care specialists, revise formulary medicine choices and expand and develop prescribing advice in key therapeutic areas. Advice on antibiotic prescribing relevant to primary and secondary care is also incorporated through linking to the NHS Tayside Guide to Antibiotic Use website. Up-to-date protocols and pathways of care are included where available and relevant.
 For paediatric and neonatal patients, please refer to the information detailed in Chapter 24, Tayside Children’s Formulary.
 First choice medicines are clearly indicated where possible.  First choice medicines are chosen on the grounds of efficacy, safety and cost-effectiveness and represent the most evidence-based and cost-effective choice for the majority of patients with a particular condition.
 The Tayside Area Formulary is intended to serve as a foundation for prescribing practice in Tayside. We hope that it will be adopted by practices and hospitals throughout the region and that clinicians, and other healthcare professionals involved in the prescribing and administration of medicines, will find it useful.
 Privacy Statement 
 Disclaimer
 We seek to ensure that the information published on our website is up to date and accurate. The information on the website does not replace clinical or professional judgement and we cannot accept any liability for actions arising from its use. We cannot be held responsible for the contents of any pages referenced by an external link.  
 Copyright   
This website is Copyright © NHS Tayside, excluding content provided by third parties. Any member of the public may make a copy of any NHS Tayside owned material for personal use only – for all other permissions you need to make a request.
 Links 
This website contains links to other sites. Please be aware that we, NHS Tayside, are not responsible for the privacy practices of such other sites. We encourage our users to be aware when they leave our site. This privacy statement applies solely to information collected by this website.
 Cookies and website traffic analysis
 Our website uses a cookie to record a reference number which relates to the version of the formulary and hospital name. No other information is stored. This data will not and cannot be used to identify any user personally.
 [img: NetFormulary] 
