              Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting

7.10 INSULIN GLARGINE
     3 ml cartridges, 100 IU/ml,
     Basaglar®, Eli Lilly

1     Purpose of submission

1.1   The minor submission requested further advice from the PBAC regarding its previous
      recommendation (March 2015) for the PBS listing of the biosimilar insulin glargine,
      Basaglar®.


2     Background

2.1   Basaglar (the trade name was previously Abasria®) was registered by the TGA on
      21 November 2014 as:
            “an insulin analogue indicated for once daily subcutaneous administration in
            the treatment of type 1 diabetes mellitus in adults and children and type 2
            diabetes mellitus in adults who require insulin for the control of
            hyperglycaemia.”

2.2   Basaglar was submitted to the TGA as an abridged biosimilar submission.

2.3   The PBAC previously considered Basaglar at the March 2015 PBAC meeting.

2.4   At this time, the PBAC recommended the unrestricted benefit listing of the biosimilar
      insulin glargine Basaglar for the treatment of type 1 and 2 diabetes mellitus on a
      cost-minimisation basis with insulin glargine Lantus®. The equi-effective doses are
      100 IU/mL Basaglar and 100 IU/mL Lantus.

2.5   The PBAC further advised the Minister that it considered the Basaglar and Lantus
      brands of insulin glargine cartridges could be marked as equivalent in the Schedule
      for the purposes of substitution by the pharmacist at the point of dispensing. Further,
      the PBAC advised that Basaglar KwikPen and Lantus Solostar brands of insulin
      glargine pre-filled disposable pens could also be marked as equivalent in the
      Schedule for the purposes of substitution. However, the PBAC considered that the
      differences between the cartridges (for use in re-usable pens) versus pre-filled
      disposable pens were sufficient to preclude substitution between cartridges and pre-
      filled disposable pens.

2.6   In forming its view on brand substitution (“a” flagging), the PBAC considered a range
      of factors including that patient response is monitored regularly (through self-
      monitoring or diabetes educators), and that dose titration occurs routinely in current
      practice as insulin dose requirements may vary frequently, for example due to
      intercurrent illness or changes in diet. The PBAC further noted that approximately
      81% and 41% of patients switched from Lantus to Basaglar in the Basaglar arm of
      the ABEB and ABEC trials respectively, albeit the patients switched brands once
      only.




                                             1
              Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting

2.7   The PBAC noted that:
         - The current TGA Product Information for Basaglar states that the
            “replacement of Lantus with Basaglar, or vice versa, should take place only
            under the supervision of the prescribing medical practitioner”, and this
            statement is in line with the TGA guidance paper “Evaluation of Biosimilars”,
            V1.0, July 2013, pg 17 [http://www.tga.gov.au/pdf/pm-argpm-biosimilars.pdf].
            It is also consistent with the 2010 TGA/PBD discussion paper on Similar
            Biological Medicinal Products, which is no longer current.
         - Basaglar and Lantus are both cartridges for use with a compatible re-usable
            pen. Basaglar KwikPen and Lantus Solostar are both pre-filled disposable
            pens. The PBAC noted that substituting between a cartridge for use in a re-
            usable pen and a disposable pen may require specific training particularly
            around loading cartridges into a pen device.

2.8   The PBAC also noted that the ACPM has ‘advised that acceptable similarity between
      Abasria (Basaglar) and Lantus has been demonstrated by the PK and PD studies’
      (ACPM Resolution, October 2014). Given also that patients with diabetes currently
      experience variability in their response to the same brand of insulin, have their
      response to insulin monitored very closely and have their doses titrated accordingly,
      the PBAC advised that it would expect that these brands may be interchanged
      (substituted) without differences in clinical effect beyond the variability in response
      seen within any one brand of insulin (i.e. the PBAC considered that the risk in terms
      of safety and diminished efficacy is not necessarily greater for a switch between
      Basaglar and Lantus, than for continued use of Lantus or Basaglar).

2.9   The PBAC also considered that any differences in the re-usable pen devices, can be
      managed in the course of the regular patient education and counselling on the use of
      the devices that is provided to patients by prescribers, pharmacists and diabetes
      educators, and that these differences were not sufficient to preclude marking the two
      brands as equivalent. Similarly, the PBAC considered that any differences in the pre-
      filled disposable pen devices can be managed in the course of the regular patient
      education and counselling.

3     Consideration of the evidence

Sponsor hearing

3.1   There was no hearing for this item as it was a minor submission.

Consumer comments

3.2   The PBAC noted that no consumer comments were received for this item.

3.3   The introduction to the resubmission stated:

      “The purpose of this submission is to request further advice from the PBAC regarding
      its previous recommendation for the PBS listing of Basaglar.

      The focus of this submission is to respond to various aspects associated with
      substitution of Basaglar and Lantus by the pharmacist at the point of dispensing. It
      will focus on three points:

                                             2
                 Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting

        1.      The evidence base required to enable substitution at the pharmacy level
        2.      Potential safety implications associated with substituting Basaglar and Lantus
                in clinical practice.
        3.      Inconsistencies between the PBAC recommendation and TGA
                determination.”

3.4     The key issue being considered in the resubmission and this overview is the
        substitutability of Basaglar and Lantus, as the efficacy and safety of Basaglar has
        previously been assessed and accepted by the PBAC. However, some additional
        safety related data related to immunogenicity and antibodies, as well as a summary
        of a review regarding switching biologicals has also been included.

Insulin glargine safety

3.5     Regarding the impact of insulin antibodies, the March 2015 PBAC Minutes
        (paragraph 6.17) include the following quotes from the Basaglar Delegate’s
        Overview:

        ‘formation of antibodies to insulin occurs frequently, without major consequences for
        efficacy and safety’; and

        ‘Antibodies could have an effect on efficacy, with larger doses of insulin required
        (neutralising antibodies) or safety, with injection site reactions or very rarely IgE
        mediated anaphylaxis (non-neutralising antibodies).’

3.6     Similarly the Australian Product Information (PI) for Lantus 1 states:

        ‘In rare cases, the presence of such insulin antibodies may necessitate adjustment of
        the insulin dose in order to correct a tendency to hyperglycaemia or hypoglycaemia.’

3.7     The Canadian Product Monograph for Lantus 2 notes that a review of the clinical data
        has not identified a need for dose adjustments due to insulin antibodies. Specifically,
        the following statement is included in the PI:

        “Insulin administration may cause insulin antibodies to form. In clinical studies,
        antibodies that cross-react with human insulin and insulin glargine were observed in
        both NPH human insulin and insulin glargine treatment groups with similar percents
        of increased and decreased titers. There was no correlation in either treatment group
        between increases or decreases in these antibody titers and changes in either A1C
        or total insulin requirements. In theory, the presence of such insulin antibodies may
        necessitate adjustment of the insulin dose in order to correct a tendency to
        hyperglycaemia or hypoglycaemia, but has not been found on review of LANTUS
        clinical trials and available post-marketing data.”




1
  p.19, Australian PI for Lantus®, Insulin glargine, Sanofi, Date of most recent amendment 25 March
2014
2
  p.7. Canadian Product Monograph for Lantus®, Insulin glargine (rDNA origin), solution for injection
100 U/mL. Sanofi-aventis Canada Inc., version s-a 13.0 dated January 7, 2015

                                                  3
                Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting

3.8     The proportion of patients with detectable insulin antibodies at baseline, study
        endpoint and overall was similar with Basaglar and Lantus in the ABEB and ABEC
        trials (March 2015 PBAC minutes, paragraph 6.18). The European Medicines Agency
        (EMA) further commented that “there was no evidence that these antibodies had any
        impact on efficacy and safety outcomes (HbA1c, weight, insulin dose, hypoglycaemic
        episodes, allergic or injection site reactions)..”3. Data from the ABEB and ABEC trials
        published as a conference abstract4 and poster5 show that the incidences of
        treatment emergent antibody responses (TEAR) and treatment emergent allergic
        events did not differ (p>0.05) between Basaglar and Lantus (antibody responses:
        10.9% vs 9.4% in ABEB, 3.8% vs 3.8% in ABEC; allergic events: 7.5% vs 4.1% in
        ABEB, 5.6% vs 7.1% in ABEC). It is also stated that clinical outcomes (HbA1c, basal
        insulin dose, and total hypoglycaemia) were not affected by TEAR status in ABEB or
        ABEC (p>0.05 for treatment-by-TEAR interaction for these outcomes).

General biosimilar safety

3.9    A review of data related to switching between therapeutic proteins was published in
       2012 6. The review included:
        13 cross-over trials in 415 volunteers and growth-hormone deficient patients
           assessing growth hormone products;
        35 cross-over trials in 11,249 volunteers and patients assessing erythropoietin
           products; and
        10 trials in 374 volunteers and patients assessing granulocyte colony stimulating
           agents.

3.10    The review also included data from pharmacovigilance databases and literature on
        the frequency of switching between human recombinant growth hormones,
        erythropoietins and granulocyte colony stimulating agents. The authors concluded:

       “We were not able to identify direct safety risk associated with substituting
       biopharmaceuticals in any of the data sources we analyzed. Although there may be
       valid reasons to be prudent with switching between biopharmaceuticals, including
       traceability of adverse events or concerns about patient anxiety, thus far there is no
       evidence that the process of switching in itself poses a risk to patients. Currently,
       there is limited clinical data that specifically studied the effects of switching, but they
       mostly concluded that patients can be safely switched from one product to the other.

       However, most clinical trials included in our analysis were not designed to identify
       switching related adverse events, while spontaneous reporting systems may not be




3
  Pg. 58, European Medicines Agency, Assessment Report, Abasria, insulin glargine. Procedure No.
EMEA/H/C/002835/0000
4
  Deeg, M, Ilag, L, et al. Evaluation of Immunogenicity of LY2963016 Insulin Glargine Compared with
Lantus® Insulin Glargine in Patients with T1D or T2D. Abstract 70-OR. Presented at 74th American
Diabetes Association (ADA) Scientific Sessions; June 13-17, 2014; San Francisco, CA, abstract
presented in 141, Canadian Journal of Diabetes, 38 (2014) S51-S52
5
  http://www.easdvirtualmeeting.org/resources/18907, accessed 9 June 2015
6
  Ebbers HC, Muenzberg M, Schellekens H. The safety of switching between therapeutic proteins.
Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2012 Nov;12(11):1473-85.

                                                 4
                Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting

       well equipped to identify adverse events associated with switching between
       biopharmaceuticals.”

       “Thus far there have been no safety concerns with marketed biosimilars. Although
       adverse events related to immunogenicity are a concern for most biopharmaceuticals
       including biosimilars and different products may be more or less immunogenic, there
       is no data that supports the notion that switching between different products induces
       immunogenicity.”

3.11   Ebbers and Chamberlain 20147 state that no post-authorisation immunogenicity-
       related issues have yet been detected in the post-authorisation phase for any EU-
       approved bio similar product. Since April 2006, 19 biosimilars have been approved
       by the EMA. The medicines approved include insulin glargine, epoetin (alfa and
       zeta), filgrastim, follitropin alfa, infliximab and somatropin.

3.12   The PBAC noted the sponsor’s responses in the pre-PBAC response.


Evidence for substitution at the pharmacy level

3.13   The resubmission presented three issues as being relevant to consideration of
       substitution at the pharmacy level:

       -    The evidence supporting substitution at the pharmacy level,
       -    The impact of substitution on the collection of longer term evidence of safety,
              and
       -    The substitutability of the devices used to deliver brands of insulin glargine.

The evidence supporting substitution at the pharmacy level

3.14   The minor resubmission noted (p2) that under the US Biologics Price Competition
       and Innovation (BCPI) Act of 2009 the FDA may declare a biosimilar as
       interchangeable and thereby substitutable without the physician consent, however,
       this requires additional data beyond those required to meet the biosimilarity standard.
       The submission states the required additional evidence does not exist within the
       Basaglar data package.

3.15   For the FDA to consider a product to be interchangeable, in addition to
       demonstrating biosimilarity, information must be provided to show that the proposed
       interchangeable product is expected to produce the same clinical result as the
       reference product in any given patient. In addition, for a biological product that is
       administered more than once to an individual, it must be demonstrated that the risk in
       terms of safety or diminished efficacy of alternating or switching between use of the
       proposed interchangeable product and the reference product is not greater than the
       risk of using the reference product without such alternating or switching
       (resubmission p3).



7
 Ebbers HC and Chamberlain P. Interchangeability. An insurmountable fifth hurdle? GaBI Journal
2014; 3(2):88-93

                                                5
                 Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting

3.16    The resubmission stated (p4) a clinical trial design that would provide the evidence
        that would satisfy the requirements of the FDA for interchangeability would involve
        switching and alternating between the biosimilar and reference products within an
        individual patient and would show that this practice adds no risk to patient safety. A
        cross-over design study with the following comparisons is noted to address both
        switching and alternating:
         biosimilar to biosimilar (BB);
         reference product to reference product (RR);
         biosimilar to reference product to biosimilar (BRB); and
         reference product to biosimilar to reference product (RBR).

3.17    The FDA has not yet published guidance on the information required to demonstrate
        a product is interchangeable8. The trial design discussed in the resubmission to
        assess interchangeability is that recommended by individual statisticians from two
        American and two Taiwanese Universities (Chow et al9). Ebbers et al 2014 10 have
        similarly suggested assessing multiple switches and consider that this could be
        incorporated into the required registration study(s). A number of designs are
        proposed. The simplest is a comparison of B, R and BRB. For infliximab the
        Norwegian Department of Health are funding a double-blind randomised trial
        comparing the safety and efficacy of switching from innovator infliximab (Remicade)
        to biosimilar infliximab compared with continued treatment with innovator infliximab
        (NOR-SWITCH study 11). For inclusion patients must have been on stable treatment
        with innovator infliximab for at least 6 months. The planned sample size is 500
        patients. The trial is due to be completed in April 2016. This trial is not assessing
        multiple switches between the innovator and biosimilar.

3.18    To date, the only biosimilar product approved using the pathway defined by the BCPI
        Act is Zarxio (filgrastim) 12. This product has been approved as biosimilar. This
        product has not been assessed for interchangeability.

3.19    Basaglar received tentative FDA approval in August 201413. All regulatory
        requirements were met; however, the approval is tentative because of litigation filed
        by Sanofi claiming patent infringement. Basaglar was approved under the 505(b) (2)
        pathway. Similar to the BCPI pathway, the 505(b) (2) pathway uses safety and
        effectiveness data of a previously approved product. The 505(b)(2) pathway is largely
        used to obtain approval of small-molecule drugs (eg. for approval of different dosage




8

http://www.fda.gov/downloads/Drugs/GuidanceComplianceRegulatoryInformation/Guidances/UCM27
3001.pdf, accessed 3 June 2015
9
  Chow et al Statistical methods for assessing interchangeability of biosimilars. Statist. Med 2013; 32:
442-448
10
   Ebbers HC and Chamberlain P. Interchangeability. An insurmountable fifth hurdle? GaBI Journal
2014; 3(2):88-93
11
   https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/study/NCT02148640
12
   http://www.fda.gov/NewsEvents/Newsroom/PressAnnouncements/ucm436648.htm, accessed 1
June 2015
13
   http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/appletter/2014/205692Orig1s000TAltr.pdf,
accessed 10 June 2015

                                                   6
               Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting

       forms, formulations, combination products) but has also been used to obtain approval
       of products considered in Europe to be biosimilars (eg. somatropin, glucagon).

3.20   The 505(b) (2) pathway is only available for biologics that had been approved under
       a new drug application (NDA) before the BPCI Act was signed into law in March 23,
       2010, and it is only available for these biologics until March 23, 2020. After this,
       biological products will be considered under the BPCI pathway.

3.21   As Basaglar was not considered under the BCPI pathway it was not assessed for
       interchangeability. The PBAC noted the sponsor’s assertion in the pre-PBAC
       response that the 505(b)(2) pathway is analogous to the FDA biosimilar pathway in
       all scientific aspects and the FDA has the opportunity to issue an interchangeability
       determination for Basaglar through the 505(b)(2) pathway, by designation of an ‘A’
       rating but so far has given no indication that it will do so.

3.22   The resubmission considered (p5) the data from the ABEB and ABEC trials would
       not be adequate for the assessment of switching as this would require switching and
       alternating between Lantus and Basaglar, in a clinical trial setting.

3.23   The submission’s assertions regarding clinical trial designs are speculative as the
       FDA requirements for assessing interchangeability are yet to be defined, and as FDA
       did not consider, nor was it asked to consider the interchangeability of Basaglar and
       Lantus.

3.24   At the March 2015 meeting, the PBAC noted that approximately 81% of 268 patients
       and 41% of 376 patients switched from Lantus to Basaglar in the Basaglar arm of the
       ABEB (in type 1 diabetes patients) and ABEC (in type 2 diabetes patients) trials
       respectively, albeit the patients switched brands once only (paragraph 7.4 of March
       2015 minutes). The resubmission notes (p4-5):

          the switch occurred at randomisation under direct medical supervision;
          no data are available from the period before the switch other than patients basal
           characteristics assessed at a single time point; and
          patients that received Lantus prior to randomisation did not receive it in a
           controlled clinical trial environment and hence, data regarding safety, dosage and
           compliance are incomplete.

3.25   Additional information regarding the design of the ABEB and ABEC trials is provided
       below.

       ABEB Trial
3.26   In the ABEB trial, the insulin glargine (Lantus and Basaglar) was self-administered
       using pre-filled pens. Both bolus and basal insulins were switched in patients. At
       randomisation, all patients were switched from their pre-study bolus mealtime insulin
       (human regular insulin, or insulin analog lispro, aspart, or glulisine) to insulin lispro
       (ABEB CSR, p58 and p62). All patients were switched from their pre-study QD basal
       insulin (NPH, LANTUS®, or detemir) to either Basaglar or Lantus based on their
       random allocation (ABEB CSR, p58 and p62).




                                              7
               Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting

3.27   Titration of the basal or bolus insulin dose was investigator driven during phone and
       office visits. Most of the basal and bolus insulin dose adjustments occurred during
       the initial titration period (Weeks 0 through 6). However, titration was extended up to
       Week 12 for patients who needed more intensification to achieve glycaemic targets.
       Insulin dose adjustments during the maintenance period were for safety concerns
       such as hypoglycaemia or unacceptable hyperglycaemia. Patients who based their
       bolus insulin doses on carbohydrate-counting continued adjusting their doses
       accordingly to attain/maintain glycaemic goals (p62). Therefore, it is likely that
       patients continue to titrate their insulin lispro throughout the study period, on top of
       any adjustments for the insulin glargine.

3.28   Data are not recorded in the CSR for the period prior to the switch however, for
       inclusion in the ABEB trial, patients must have been on basal-bolus insulin therapy
       for at least 1 year prior to screening. Basal insulin was required to be QD injection of
       NPH, LANTUS®, or detemir for at least 3 months prior to screening and combined
       with mealtime injections of bolus insulin (ABEB CSR, p58). Patients had no more
       than one episode of severe hypoglycaemia, diabetic ketoacidosis or emergency room
       visit for uncontrolled diabetes leading to hospitalisation within the previous 6 months.
       Thus the trial included type 1 diabetes patients with stable disease.

3.29   This trial had a longer study period compared to ABEC. ABEB included a 24-week
       treatment period, a 28-week active-controlled extension period, and a 4-week post-
       treatment follow-up. Patients visited the investigator site at weeks 0, 2, 6, 12, 18, 24,
       30, 36, 44, and 52 for study assessments (ABEB CSR, p56). Between visits 2 (week
       0) and 3 (week 2), and visits 3 (week 2) and 4 (week 6), patients were contacted over
       the telephone to assess their response to the study drug and to further adjust insulin
       doses, if needed.

3.30   At baseline the LS mean HbA1c (%) was 7.76 and 7.79 in the Basaglar and Lantus
       group, respectively, and by 24 weeks this had reduced slightly to 7.42 and 7.33
       (ABEB CSR, Table ABEB 11.2). The insulin glargine dose (either as Lantus or
       Basaglar) was increased by a mean of 2 units/day, between baseline and week 24
       (ABEB CSR, Table ABEB.11.8). The insulin lispro dose reduced by a mean of 1
       unit/day between baseline and week 24 (ABEB CSR, Table ABEB 11.9). Thus during
       the ABEB trial the patient’s insulin glargine and bolus insulin dose was reasonably
       stable, and the reduction in HbA1c levels was relatively small.

       ABEC Trial
3.31   In the ABEC trial, the insulin glargine (Lantus or Basaglar) was self-administered
       using a vial and syringe. The titration of the insulin glargine dose was patient-driven
       utilising instructional material provided by Eli Lilly (ABEC CSR, p42). Sites were
       responsible for consistent instruction of all enrolled patients with the materials
       provided. The patient-driven titration included the addition of 1 U of insulin daily until
       fasting blood glucose (FBG) reached ≤100 mg/dL (5.6 mmol/L). The investigators
       had the discretion of titrating the patient dose by more than 1 U daily during the visits
       if it was found to be necessary (ie, hyperglycaemia persisted despite appropriate
       patient titration). The investigators also had the discretion to decrease the dose only
       if it was noted that patients were experiencing hypoglycaemia.




                                               8
               Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting

3.32   During the 24 week treatment period patients visited the investigator site at weeks 0,
       2, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, and 24, and patients were contacted by telephone between the
       office visits.

3.33   Data are not recorded in the CSR for the period prior to the switch however, for
       inclusion in the ABEC trial patients were required to be receiving 2 or more oral
       antidiabetic agents (OADs) at stable doses for at least 12 weeks. Furthermore,
       patients were to have not used any other insulin except Lantus within the 30 days
       prior to entry, and were to not have had more than 1 episode of severe
       hypoglycaemia within the previous 6 months. Thus the trial included type 2 diabetes
       patients with stable disease.

3.34   The type 2 diabetes patients included in the ABEC trial are a subset of patients likely
       to be treated in clinical practice. Specifically, patients with a history of taking basal
       bolus therapy, patients likely to require mealtime insulin to achieve target control, and
       patients that had used short-acting glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) agonist (eg,
       exenatide) or long acting GLP-1 agonist (eg, liraglutide) within the previous 90 days
       were excluded from participating in the trial. Patients with significant comorbidities
       were also excluded.

3.35   The ABEC trial included patients that were (i) insulin naïve, (ii) treated with Lantus
       with adequate glycaemic control or (iii) treated with Lantus but had inadequate
       glycaemic control. Overall, 39.6% of patients were treated with Lantus at study entry.
       Only 5.8% of patients had a HbA1c of <7.0% at baseline, and 44.6% had a HbA1c
       ≥8.5% (AEBC CSR, Table ABEC.11.1). Thus it appears that the majority of patients
       in the ABEC trial had inadequate glycaemic control at study entry. For patients
       treated with Lantus at study entry, the insulin glargine dose (either as Lantus or
       Basaglar) was increased by a mean of 16-20 units/day, and the HbA1c decreased by
       a mean of approximately 1.0%, during the 24 week trial period (ABEC CSR, Table
       ABEC.11.11). Thus during the ABEC trial the patient’s insulin glargine treatment was
       generally intensified compared with that prior to study entry.

The impact of substitution on the collection of longer term evidence of safety

3.36   The safety data from the ABEB and ABEC trials were reviewed by the PBAC at their
       March 2015 meeting. The PBAC considered that the claim of non-inferior
       comparative safety was adequately supported (PBAC minutes paragraph 7.2). The
       resubmission notes (p5) that establishing the comparative safety profile requires
       more experience than that gained within a clinical trial, and market experience with
       the biosimilar product is essential in order to detect rare events that cannot be
       detected in clinical trials. Immunogenicity is noted to be of particular concern. The
       resubmission (p6) and the March 2015 PBAC minutes (paragraph 6.16) quote the
       following from the Delegate’s Overview for Basaglar, and it is noted that a
       pharmacovigilance plan is in place for Basaglar:

       ‘[t]he general corresponding concern for biosimilars is that even small and innocuous
       differences in manufacture, formulation, or presentation could lead to unforseen
       clinical consequences associated with immunogenicity, which could lead to reduced
       efficacy or new safety problems.’



                                              9
                   Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting

3.37      The resubmission considered (p6) that substitution of Lantus and Basaglar by the
          pharmacist could compromise pharmacovigilance, specifically the traceability to a
          particular form of insulin glargine could be compromised. It is noted that prescribers
          report significantly more adverse events (AEs) than pharmacists, and only
          pharmacists will have direct knowledge of the actual item dispensed. Further, the
          clinician may rely on assumed knowledge of the medicine used based on the original
          prescription. TGA AE reporting statistics for 2011 are presented in the resubmission
          (p6). Of the approximately 14,400 reports received by the TGA, 52% were from
          pharmaceutical companies, 12% from hospitals, 7% from General Practitioners, 18%
          from State and Territory Health Departments and 3% from consumers. The sources
          for other reports (8%) included community pharmacists and specialists. Lilly states
          that most of the AEs reported through their local pharmacovigilance programs are
          derived through sales representative interactions with prescribing health care
          professionals.

3.38      The “Blue Card” for AE reporting requests for the suspected medicine that the trade
          name is used and, if known, the batch number and AUST R or AUST L number is
          provided14. Given this a prescriber may source additional detail, including the trade
          name, from the patient and/or pharmacist. Table 1 provides the number of AEs
          reported with and without the trade name specified for insulin glargine, two oral
          antidiabetic agents with multiple generic brand available (metformin and gliclazide)
          and a biological with a biosimilar available (filgrastim).

          Table 1: AEs reported with and without trade name from the Australian Database of
          Adverse Event Notifications (DEAN)

           Medicine           Time period          AE Reports

           Insulin glargine   1 January 2013 –     Total: 85 reports
                              21 February 2015     Trade name specified (Lantus, Lantus Optiset,
                                                   Lantus Solostar): 82 reports
                                                   Trade name not specified: 3 reports

           Metformin          1 January 2013 –     Total: 182 reports
                              21 February 2015     Trade name specified: 76 reports
                                                   Trade name not specified: 106 reports

           Gliclazide         1 January 2013 –     Total: 26 reports
                              21 February 2015     Trade name specified: 14 reports
                                                   Trade name not specified: 12 reports
                                              a
           Filgrastim         1 January 2011 –     Total: 20 reports
                              21 February 2015     Trade name specified (Neupogen, Nivestim): 11
                                                   reports
                                                   Trade name not specified: 9 reports

          a The first filgrastim biosimilar (Nivestim) was listed on 1 April 2011
          Source: Database of Adverse Event Notifications (DEAN) – medicines;
          http://apps.tga.gov.au/PROD/DAEN/daen-entry.aspx, accessed 9-10 June 2015




14
     https://www.tga.gov.au/sites/default/files/problem-medicines-forms-bluecard-150218.pdf

                                                    10
                Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting

3.39   As of 2012 European legislation mandates prescription of all biological medicinal
       products by brand name, as well as recording of the batch number of the product
       used 15. Based on an analysis of 13,790 spontaneous adverse drug reaction (ADR)
       reports from the EU EudraVigilance over the period 2004-2010, brand names were
       recorded for 90.4% of biopharmaceuticals and for 96.2% of biopharmaceuticals when
       the biopharmaceutical was the suspected drug 16. Batch numbers were rarely
       reported with the brand name and batch number reported for 3.8% of
       biopharmaceuticals and for 5.3% of suspected biopharmaceutical. However, this
       analysis predates the legislation mandating the recording of batch numbers.

3.40   A similar analysis of the Italian Spontaneous Reporting System Database over the
       period 2001-2013, reported that 94.8% of biological-related reports included an
       identifiable product name, whilst only 8.6% indicated the corresponding batch
       number.17

Substitutability of delivery devices

3.41   The resubmission quoted (p5) the following from the FDA’s Guidance for Industry o n
       Biosimilars: Q & As Regarding Implementation of the BPCI Act of 2009 :

       “Additional considerations apply for a proposed interchangeable product. For
       example, in reviewing an application for a proposed interchangeable product, the
       FDA may consider whether the differences from the reference product significantly
       alter critical design attributes, product performance, or operating principles, or would
       require additional instruction to healthcare providers or patients, for patients to be
       safely alternated or switched between the reference product and one or more
       interchangeable products without the intervention of the prescribing healthcare
       provider. Additional performance data about the delivery device may also be
       necessary”.

3.42   The resubmission noted (p5) the Basaglar clinical trials did not test the possible
       safety implications of switching patients between Lantus and Basaglar delivery
       devices without the intervention of the prescribing healthcare provider.

3.43   The resubmission argued (p7) that ‘…differences between the disposable pens can
       create confusion and potentially compromise patient safety, and …. that there are
       significant risks associated with substitution between the different brands of
       cartridges’. More specifically, patients may receive a different device to the one they
       were trained on, or they may receive a cartridge that cannot be used with their
       current re-usable pen. It is further noted that with the Lantus Solostar pen patients
       are able to dial 80 units per injection whereas with the Basaglar Kwikpen patients are
       only able to dial 60 units per injection. Thus patients who require more than 60U per


15
   Ebbers HC and Chamberlain P. Interchangeability. An insurmountable fifth hurdle? GaBI Journal
2014; 3(2):88-93
16
   Vermeer NS et al. Traceability of Biopharmaceuticals in Spontaneous Reporting Systems: A Cross-
Sectional Study in the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) and EudraVigilance
Databases. Drug Saf 2013; 36:617–625
17
   Cutroneo PM et al. Safety Profile of Biological Medicines as Compared with Non-Biologicals: An
Analysis of the Italian Spontaneous Reporting System Database. Drug Saf 2014; 37:961–970

                                               11
                   Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting

          day will need to inject twice with Basaglar, but possibly only once with Lantus. Or, if a
          second injection was required with Lantus, the number of units required to be dialled
          for the second injection when using Basaglar would be different to that when using
          Lantus. The resubmission considers that this could create significant confusion to the
          patients and could potentially lead to serious medication errors.

3.44      The resubmission appeared to be concerned that substitution will occur automatically
          and unchecked.

3.45      However, brand substitution has been occurring successfully for many years and
          there are well established guidelines and processes for substitution of ‘a’ flagged
          items, which clinicians, pharmacists and patients are familiar with.

3.46      As always, the prescriber has the option to offer patients the choice of taking the
          original brand or the substitute brand, or to indicate on the prescription that only the
          brand being prescribed must be dispensed. Similarly, the patient has the choice as
          to whether or not they wish to receive a substitute brand at the time of dispensing, if
          that option has been made available by the prescriber.

3.47      Further, professional societies such as the Pharmaceutical Society of Australia (PSA)
          provide guidelines to professional pharmacists which outline the conditions under
          which substitution is permitted and provide guidance on best practice for dispensing
          substitute pharmaceutical benefits. These include recommendations including that; 18

                 Where substitution is allowed and the patient is offered or enquires about
                  alternate brands, the pharmacist and the patient should discuss the safety
                  and suitability of alternate brands for that patient,
                 Brand substitution may only occur after consultation with and agreement of
                  the patient, and
                 Where substitution is allowed, the pharmacist must provide thorough advice
                  (including for example, differences in product presentation) whenever
                  substitution occurs.

3.48      The PSA has also recently published a position statement on biosimilar medicines, in
          which it notes that pharmacists follow substitution principles which respect the choice
          of prescribers and patients. The statement affirms that patient safety is a prime
          concern of the pharmacy profession and notes that in relation to biosimilar
          medicines, risk assessment steps include assessment of safety and efficacy by the
          TGA, consideration by the PBAC and clinical assessment by the prescriber have
          been taken. 19

3.49      In relation to insulin, many pharmacies stock and supply delivery devices, with
          pharmacists able to provide training to patients on their use. In addition, diabetes
          educators can discuss the available brands of insulin glargine and, if appropriate,
          instruct patients to request the pharmacist provide a specific brand or device.


18
     http://www.psa.org.au/download/policies/pbs-brand-substitution.pdf; accessed 19 June 2015
19
  https://www.psa.org.au/download/policies/biosimilar-medicines-position-statement.pdf, accessed 30
September 2015

                                                  12
                Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting


3.50   Further, the Commonwealth has recently committed to the launch of a national
       campaign costing up to $20 million over three years to increase the awareness,
       understanding and uptake of biosimilar medicines.

3.51   There is currently a multiplicity of insulin brands and devices listed on the PBS with
       some insulins being available in five different brand/device combinations, not all of
       which are readily distinguishable at the brand name level (see examples in Table 2).
       The availability of the Basaglar devices as alternatives to the Lantus devices would
       not be expected to result in additional complexity to what is already being managed
       in practice.

       Table 2: Examples of PBS listed insulin brand/device combinations




       Source: National Health (Listing of Pharmaceutical Benefits) Instrument 2012 (PB 71 of 2012);
       http://www.comlaw.gov.au/Details/F2015C00406, accessed 14 June 2015

3.52   At the March 2015 meeting, the PBAC considered “that any differences in the re-
       usable pen devices, can be managed in the course of the regular patient education
       and counselling on the use of the devices that is provided to patients by prescribers,
       pharmacists and diabetes educators, and that these differences were not sufficient to
       preclude marking the two brands as equivalent. Similarly, the PBAC considered that
       any differences in the pre-filled disposable pen devices can be managed in the
       course of the regular patient education and counselling.” (PBAC minutes paragraph
       7.7)


                                                    13
               Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting

3.53   The PBAC reiterated this position at the July 2015 consumer meeting on biosimilars,
       stating that it considered that differences in drug delivery devices may be able to be
       managed in the course of the regular patient education and counselling on the use of
       the devices that is provided to patients by prescribers, pharmacists and other health
       care professionals, but that this would be considered on a case by case basis.

3.54   PBAC noted Lilly’s continuing concerns regarding the substitutability of the delivery
       devices as set out in its pre-PBAC response. See also Section 4 – outcomes.


Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) and Advisory Committee for Prescription
Medicines (ACPM) considerations

3.55   In considering what advice to give to the Minister on this matter, the PBAC took into
       account the materials concerning the TGA’s consideration of Basaglar, including:

          -   The Basaglar Product Information;
          -   Email correspondence of 10-11 November 2014 between the TGA and Eli
              Lilly regarding the Health Care Professionals letter;
          -   the TGA letter to Eli Lilly dated 17 April 2015;
          -   Eli Lilly’s Basaglar resubmission of April 2015, including the submissions in
              section 3 of that resubmission;
          -   the Department’s overview for PBAC for insulin glargine, including the
              outcomes of the TGA review of the section of the Eli Lilly resubmission
              relevant to the TGA/ACPM’s determination regarding substitutability as
              recorded at paragraphs 3.53 – 3.54 of that overview ; and
          -   the sponsors pre-PBAC response of October 2015.
3.56   The PBAC Minutes from March 2015 indicate that the PBAC considered that neither
       the TGA nor the ACPM made a determination regarding the pharmacist-level
       substitutability of Basaglar and Lantus. However, Eli Lilly’s resubmission asserts that
       documentary evidence demonstrates that the TGA and/or the ACPM did indeed
       make a positive determination regarding the substitution of Basaglar and Lantus and
       required conditions of registration and PI wording, confirming Basaglar should only
       be substituted with Lantus under strict medical supervision.

3.57   The TGA subsequently wrote to Eli Lilly on 17 April 2015 to confirm its position that
       substitutability was not evaluated by the TGA and advice on whether or not the
       product was substitutable was not sought from ACPM.

3.58   The TGA has reviewed the section of the Eli Lilly resubmission relevant to the
       TGA/ACPM’s determination regarding substitutability and has indicated that,
       consistent with the 17 April letter, it does not agree with the proposition that “the
       actions of the TGA and ACPM… evidence an active consideration of the issue, and
       positive determination that pharmacist-level substitution is not appropriate for
       Basaglar and Lantus, by the TGA and ACPM.”

3.59   Rather, the TGA has confirmed its view that the material described by Eli Lilly in the
       resubmission, is consistent with the proposition that both the delegate and ACPM
       were adopting the approach outlined in the 2013 TGA guidance document
       (Evaluation of Biosimilars V1.0, July 2013), and not making a specific finding about


                                             14
               Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting

       whether Basaglar could be substituted at the pharmacy level for Lantus. The TGA
       confirmed that the approved PI wording was intended to reflect the statements in the
       biosimilars guidance document generally, rather than being indicative of any specific
       conclusion in relation to Basaglar resulting from analysis, by the delegate or by
       ACPM, of data provided by Ely Lilly in relation to for the particular medicine. While
       the TGA acknowledges the email correspondence of 10-11 November 2014
       regarding the possibility of the imposition of a condition in relation to a health care
       professional letter, it notes that no such condition was imposed on the registration of
       Basaglar.

The PBAC’s power to make a finding regarding substitutability

3.60   The PBAC has always provided advice to the Minister regarding whether a brand or
       form of a medicine listed on the PBS should be substitutable for another brand or
       form of the same medicine at the time of dispensing. Examples of where this advice
       is provided include different brands and forms of both small chemical molecule and
       biological medicines.

3.61   At its March 2015 meeting, the PBAC considered a request for advice, pursuant to
       section 101(3) of the National Health Act 1953 (NH Act), made to it by the Minister’s
       delegate. That section of the Act provides:

       “The Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee shall make recommendations to
       the Minister from time to time as to the drugs and medicinal preparations which it
       considers should be made available as pharmaceutical benefits under this Part and
       shall advise the Minister upon any other matter concerning the operation of this Part
       referred to it by the Minister.”

3.62   The resubmission argued that, read in the context of the Therapeutic Goods Act
       1989 (TG Act):

          s101 (3) of the NH Act does not permit the PBAC to find that two products are
           “equivalent” under section 84AJ of the NH Act if the TGA “has not made a
           positive determination regarding the safety and efficacy of allowing pharmacist
           level substitution of those products”. It would seem to follow that that the
           Minister could not make a determination of equivalence in those circumstances;
           and
          (it follows from that, or even if that is wrong) the NH Act does not permit the
           Minister to determine or decide that two products are equivalent for the purposes
           of “a”-flagging, nor the PBAC to give advice to that effect, if the TGA has
           concluded that pharmacy-level substitution is unsafe or should not be permitted.

3.63   The resubmission argued the TGA is solely responsible, as part of considering
       whether or not to register a medicine in Australia, for determining matters concerning
       the safety and efficacy of the medicine.

       (References in this context to conclusions of the TGA should be understood to mean
       the conclusions of the Secretary’s delegate - usually an officer of the TGA - under the
       TG Act.)



                                             15
               Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting

3.64   In support of the argument made, the resubmission pointed to matters including the
       following:

          s25(1)(d) of the TG Act requires the TGA to consider matters of quality, safety
           and efficacy when determining whether to register a product on the ARTG;
          the PBAC is established under s100A of the NH Act to assess whether certain
           drugs ought to be made available under the PBS;
          the distinction between the PBAC’s economic focus and the TGA’s safety focus
           is made clear in the two Acts’ regulation of the eligibility for membership to, and
           the functions of, the respective bodies. This includes the detailed requirements in
           the TG Act regarding the clinical and other data to be furnished to, and complex
           evaluation of safety evidence to be undertaken by, the TGA.

3.65   Subsequent to this resubmission being made, legislation passed by the Parliament
       on 23 June 2015 made a technical amendment to the NH Act related to the PBAC
       function for recommending schedule equivalence to the Minister, and the Minister’s
       power to determine schedule equivalence:

3.66   Under subsection 85(6A) of the NH Act commencing 1 November 2015, “If the
       Minister determines a brand of a pharmaceutical item under subsection (6), the
       Minister may, by legislative instrument, determine that, for the purposes of paragraph
       103(2A)(b), the brand is to be treated as equivalent to one or more other brands of
       pharmaceutical items.”

3.67   Under subsection 85(6B) of the NH Act commencing 1 November 2015, “ In deciding
       whether the brand of pharmaceutical item is to be treated as equivalent to one or
       more other brands of pharmaceutical items, the Minister must have regard to any
       advice given by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee.”

3.68   Under subsection 101(4AACD) of the NH Act, commencing 1 November 2015, “The
       Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee may give advice to the Minister in
       relation to whether or not the Minister should determine that a brand of a
       pharmaceutical item is to be treated as equivalent to one or more other brands of
       pharmaceutical items.”

3.69   Neither section 85(6A) or 85(6B) of the NH Act require that, prior to two
       pharmaceutical benefits being marked as equivalent in the Schedule of
       Pharmaceutical Benefits, any advice, let alone positive advice, must first be obtained
       from the TGA that the two pharmaceutical benefits are substitutable.

3.70   Nor does section 101(4AACD) of the NH Act, which empowers the PBAC to give
       advice to the Minister, make any reference to the TG Act.

3.71   The Department considers that:

          substitutability of brands or forms of the same medicine (drug) is a matter which
           may or may not be examined by the TGA in the course of assessing whether a
           particular brand or form of that medicine should be registered;




                                             16
               Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting

          if the TGA has not considered substitutability, that does not prevent the Minister
           from deciding that the two pharmaceutical benefits should be “a”-flagged, nor the
           PBAC from giving advice to the Minister about whether that should happen;
          if the TGA has considered substitutability, then any views expressed by the TGA
           about that are matters which the Minister is permitted to, and would be likely to
           wish to, take into account when deciding whether or not two pharmaceutical
           benefits should be “a”-flagged. Similarly, they would be matters which the
           PBAC, if advising the Minister, would be permitted to take into account.

3.72   In understanding the PBAC’s and the Minister’s powers it is of relevance to recall
       that:

          the primary implications of an “a”-flagging decision relate to an offence in the
           context of the supply of a pharmaceutical benefit as part of a Commonwealth
           subsidy scheme;
          the decision as to whether, in any particular case, an “a”-flagged pharmaceutical
           benefit will be substituted, remains in the hands of prescribers and pharmacists;
           and
          an “a”-flagging decision does not prevent a prescriber or pharmacist from
           deciding that, for any particular patient, switching between the two “a”-flagged
           pharmaceutical benefits is not safe.

3.73   The “a”-flagging of two pharmaceutical benefits in the Schedule of Pharmaceutical
       Benefits, as a matter of law simply has the effect that it is not an offence for a
       pharmacist, in certain circumstances, to supply under the PBS a particular
       pharmaceutical benefit (the substitute benefit) even though another pharmaceutical
       benefit was prescribed. It will be an offence for the pharmacist to do that if:

          the prescriber indicated that only the pharmaceutical benefit referred to in the
           prescription could be supplied; or
          the supply of the substitute benefit is prohibited in the state or territory where it is
           to be supplied.

3.74   “A”-flagging does not require substitution for all patients, nor permit substitution
       where a prescriber has considered that not to be appropriate.

3.75   Even where two pharmaceutical benefits are “a”-flagged, it is up to the relevant
       prescriber and pharmacist to determine whether substitution is appropriate. Both of
       those health professionals will have regard to the individual patient’s circumstances
       to consider whether substitution is appropriate and may:

          in the case of the prescribing physician, elect to write the prescription so as to
           indicate that substitution by the pharmacist is not permissible; or
          in the case of the pharmacist, elect not to dispense the ‘substitute’
           pharmaceutical benefit.

3.76   The fact that individual patient safety concerns remains an issue for the pharmacist
       to consider, even where two pharmaceutical benefits are “a”-flagged, is reflected in
       the PSA’s “Dispensing Practice Guidelines and Guidelines for Pharmacists on PBS
       Brand Substitution”. Those documents contain the following statements:


                                               17
               Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting


          “Where there is a potential option for brand substitution, a discussion of the
           rationale should take place if the patient desires. Following a full disclosure of the
           choices, the pharmacist should be satisfied that the patient understands the
           outcome. Details of the substitution should be recorded if substitution takes place
           and noted on the prescription”;
          “Consumer Medicine Information leaflets should be provided on initiation of any
           treatment, and offered on subsequent dispensings according to established
           guidelines.”
          “Brand substitution may only occur after consultation with and agreement of the
           patient (or the carer), and if the prescriber has not indicated on the prescription,
           “no substitution”, or equivalent.
          Where substitution is allowed and the patient is offered or enquires about
           alternate brands, the pharmacist and the patient should discuss the safety and
           suitability of alternate brands for that patient.
          The patient’s health should always be the pharmacist’s prime consideration in
           any brand substitution decision. Decisions to substitute one brand for another
           should not place patients at risk.
          Pharmacists should endeavour to be consistent in the selection of brands for
           patients on long-term therapy in order to avoid patient confusion. If this is not
           possible then the patient should be consulted.”

3.77   The pre-PBAC response noted that subsequent to Lilly’s resubmission, legislation
       was passed to amend the NH Act related to the PBAC function for recommending
       schedule equivalence to the Minister, and the Minister’s power to determine schedule
       equivalence.

3.78   The pre-PBAC response asserts that “in providing legitimate advice to the Minister on
       the question of substitutability, the PBAC cannot disregard issues of safety and
       efficacy, which are matters assessed by the TGA, ACPM and Secretary’s delegate
       related to the statutory obligation under section 25(1)(d) of the TG Act. The evidence
       indicates that the Secretary’s delegate made a decision to register Basaglar on the
       basis that pharmacy-level substitution should not be permitted and should only
       otherwise occur under strict medical supervision. If the PBAC disregards the
       decision of the Secretary’s delegate and recommends to the Minister that Basaglar
       and Lantus ought to nevertheless be regarded as equivalent, then the PBAC would
       likely fall into administrative error, having failed to take relevant considerations into
       account in making its recommendation.

3.79   As noted above in paragraphs 3.54 to 3.58, the PBAC has taken into account, in the
       course of considering the resubmission, the views of the TGA (including the
       Secretary’s delegate).

4      PBAC Outcome

4.1    The PBAC reaffirmed its March 2015 advice to the Minister that the Basaglar and
       Lantus brands of insulin glargine cartridges, and the Basaglar KwikPen and Lantus
       Solostar brands of insulin glargine pre-filled disposable pens respectively, could be
       marked as equivalent in the Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits for the purposes of
       substitution by the pharmacist at the point of dispensing.


                                              18
              Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting


4.2   The PBAC noted the sponsor’s concerns about safety of substitution and risk to
      pharmacovigilance as set out in the resubmission and pre-PBAC response. The
      PBAC considered that these concerns could be addressed, in part because the
      substitution of medicines in Australia is not “automatic”. Substitution at the point of
      dispensing is performed only in consultation with, and with the consent of, the
      patient. The submission claimed that pharmacovigilance accuracy would be
      negatively impacted because only pharmacists would have direct knowledge of the
      actual item dispensed, however the PBAC considered that as substitution is
      performed in consultation with the patient, the patient would also have knowledge of
      the brand dispensed. The PBAC noted that there may be a role for the eHealth
      record in the collection of this information to aid with pharmacovigilance.

4.3   The PBAC noted that there are professional guidelines on substitution issued by the
      Pharmaceutical Society of Australia and that the Pharmacy Guild of Australia has
      also produced a policy position on biosimilars and substitution that emphasise patient
      safety and consultation.

4.4   The PBAC noted that the prescriber has the option to offer patients the choice of
      taking the original brand or the substitute brand, or to indicate on the prescription that
      only the brand being prescribed must be dispensed. Similarly, the patient has the
      choice as to whether or not they wish to receive a substitute brand at the time of
      dispensing, if that option has been made available by the prescriber.

4.5   The PBAC noted the sponsors concern that doctors are more often reporters of
      adverse drug reactions (ADRs) and that they will use their prescribing records for
      reporting. The PBAC noted that the TGA ADR reporting system requests the trade
      name of the medicine, and additionally the batch and AUSTL or AUSTR numbers if
      known. The PBAC agreed that community pharmacists may not be as frequent
      reporters of ADRs, however considered that with the education and promotion being
      undertaken for biosimilars, there was opportunity to enhance pharmacovigilance by
      pharmacists.

4.6   The PBAC noted that the Solostar delivery device for Lantus can deliver a higher
      dose, 80 units, than the Kwikpen device for Basalgar, 60 units. The PBAC
      considered that the proportion of patients requiring a dose in the range between 60
      and 80 units was small, and that in other aspects, the pen delivery devices were
      similar. The PBAC further noted that the actual devices are not routinely provided by
      pharmacies, but by clinicians and diabetes educators. The PBAC considered this
      would likely reduce the occasions on which pharmacy level substitution can occur
      without the involvement of the clinician or diabetes educator. The PBAC therefore
      reaffirmed its view that any differences in the re-usable pen devices, can be
      managed in the course of the regular patient education and counselling on the use of
      the devices that is provided to patients by prescribers, pharmacists and diabetes
      educators, and that these differences were not sufficient to preclude marking the two
      brands as equivalent.

4.7   The PBAC also noted an Australian study (Kalisch et al 2009) that found that the
      number of pharmacies attended by a patient was the factor most likely to increase
      odds of multiple brand substitution. The PBAC noted that most pharmacies do not


                                             19
               Public Summary Document – November 2015 PBAC Meeting

       stock a large range of insulins (given the high cost, large number of brands and
       forms available, and the requirement for refrigeration) and considered that patients
       who require insulin glargine are more likely to utilise a single pharmacy that orders
       stock specifically for that patient.

4.8    The PBAC reiterated that it is of a mind to consider whether a biosimilar medicine is
       suitable for substitution by pharmacists on the basis of each application on its own
       merit, based on the evidence presented in each case, rather than adopting an overall
       policy-position a priori.

Outcome:
The PBAC reaffirmed its March 2015 advice to the Minister that the Basaglar and Lantus
brands of insulin glargine cartridges, and the Basaglar KwikPen and Lantus Solostar brands
of insulin glargine pre-filled disposable pens respectively, could be marked as equivalent in
the Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits for the purposes of substitution by the pharmacist
at the point of dispensing.


5      Context for Decision

       The PBAC helps decide whether and, if so, how medicines should be subsidised in
       Australia. It considers submissions in this context. A PBAC decision not to
       recommend listing or not to recommend changing a listing does not represent a final
       PBAC view about the merits of the medicine. A company can resubmit to the PBAC
       or seek independent review of the PBAC decision.

6      Sponsor’s Comment

       The sponsor disagrees with the PBAC’s recommendation to reaffirm the March 2015
       advice to the Minister to ‘a’-flag Basaglar and Lantus brands of insulin glargine. We
       remain concerned that the evidence base for Basaglar does not support substitution
       at the pharmacy level and that the regulatory and cost effectiveness processes
       together created yet-unresolved conflicts between the TGA and PBAC requirements
       for Basaglar that make it difficult to proceed with a listing till they are sufficiently
       resolved.




                                             20
