 
 Eli Lilly insulin (various forms) - supply shortage | European Medicines Agency (EMA) 
 Skip to main content 
 English 
Select your language 
 български español čeština dansk Deutsch eesti ελληνικά English français Gaeilge hrvatski italiano latviešu 
 lietuvių magyar Malti Nederlands polski português română slovenčina slovenščina suomi svenska Íslenska norsk 
 Search 
 Select how you want to search using keywords 
 All words 
 Any word 
 Exact phrase 
 Medicines 
 Find medicine 
 Therapeutic areas: latest updates 
 Download medicine data 
 What we publish on medicines and when 
 Medicines under evaluation 
 National registers 
 Human regulatory 
 Overview 
 Research and development 
 Marketing authorisation 
 Post-authorisation 
 Medical devices 
 Herbal products 
 Veterinary regulatory 
 Overview 
 Research and development 
 Marketing authorisation 
 Post-authorisation 
 Committees 
 Overview 
 How the committees work 
 CHMP 
 CVMP 
 PRAC 
 COMP 
 HMPC 
 CAT 
 PDCO 
 Working parties and other groups 
 News & events 
 Overview 
 News 
 Events 
 What's new 
 Committee highlights 
 Publications 
 Press and social media 
 Podcast: Inside EMA 
 Campaigns 
 Speeches 
 Open consultations 
 RSS feeds 
 Partners & networks 
 Getting involved 
 Overview 
 EU partners 
 International activities 
 Patients and consumers 
 Healthcare professionals 
 Academia 
 Pharmaceutical industry 
 Networks 
 Health technology assessment bodies 
 One Health approach 
 Animal health professionals 
 One substance - one assessment 
 About us 
 Overview 
 What we do 
 Who we are 
 How we work 
 Fees 
 Support to SMEs 
 Annual reports and work programmes 
 History of EMA 
 Careers 
 Procurement 
 About this website 
 Data protection and privacy 
 Contacts 
 Home 
 Medicines 
Eli Lilly insulin (various forms) - supply shortage 
 Eli Lilly insulin (various forms) - supply shortage 
Shortage ongoing 
 Shortage Human 
 Page contents 
Page contents 
 Shortage information 
 Key facts 
 Key dates 
 Related medicine information 
 Related shortage information 
Shortage information 
Eli Lilly is discontinuing some of its insulin presentations (containing human insulin, insulin lispro and insulin glargine) across selected countries. The specific products affected and the timelines for their withdrawal differ across EU/EEA countries. All discontinuations are expected to occur before Q2 2027, after which the affected insulin presentations will no longer be available. 
This is in addition to Humalog Mix25 (25% insulin lispro and 75% insulin lispro protamine, 100 units/ml suspension for injection, vial) which has already been discontinued in all EU/EEA countries where it was marketed. 
Insulin medicines are used to treat patients who have diabetes and need insulin to help control their blood glucose (sugar) level. 
For information on the use of the medicines please refer to the respective medicine overview pages on EMA’s website. 
For more details and up-to-date information on the availability of individual insulins, consult your country’s shortage register or contact your national competent authority. 
 Expand section 
 Collapse section 
 Reason for shortage 
The company Eli Lilly has decided to stop marketing some of its insulin medicines for commercial reasons. This decision is not related to a quality defect or safety issue. 
 Member States affected 
The discontinuations affect Member States differently. For more details, consult your country’s shortage register or contact your national competent authority. 
 Monitoring of shortage 
EMA’s Executive Steering Group on Shortages and Safety of Medicinal Products (MSSG) and EMA’s shortages working party (Medicines Shortages Single Point of Contact – SPOC - working party) are closely monitoring the supply situation and engaging with the marketing authorisation holder and other stakeholders to mitigate the impact of the planned discontinuations. 
The SPOC Working Party Supports EMA’s MSSG and monitors and reports events that could affect the supply of medicines in the EU. 
 Recommendations for healthcare professionals 
For information specific to your country, please consult your national shortage register or contact your national competent authority. 
In affected Member States, healthcare professionals will receive a shortage communication letter w ith details on the impacted insulins and recommended actions. 
Where applicable, healthcare professionals should transition patients currently using any of the affected insulins to suitable alternatives, in line with existing guidance and their clinical judgement. 
Healthcare professionals should ensure that all patients are counselled on any changes in the new insulin regimen including the need to change dose and/or usage of the new insulin delivery system and additional glucose monitoring. 
Close glucose monitoring is recommended when the patient is switched to another type or brand of insulin and in the initial weeks thereafter, especially in pregnant women and children who may need closer monitoring than the general population. The risk of hypoglycaemia may be higher in these populations. 
Healthcare professionals may also contact relevant organisations for further information. A list of European not-for-profit organisations EMA engages with can be found on the EMA website. 
 Recommendations for patients and carers 
For information specific to your country, please consult your national shortage register or contact your healthcare professional. 
Your healthcare professional will advise you if any of the insulins you are using are affected by the discontinuation and will switch you to an alternative insulin, if needed. 
If your healthcare professional switches your insulin they will explain any changes to you and ensure that you are given adequate training on using any new insulin delivery system. 
If you are being switched, you may need to closely monitor your glucose levels during the transfer to another type or brand of insulin and in the initial weeks thereafter. This applies especially if you are pregnant or under 18 years of age, as you may be at higher risk of hypoglycaemia. 
If you have any questions, speak to your doctor or pharmacist. 
You may also contact relevant patients’ organisations for further information or support. A list of European not-for-profit organisations that EMA engages with can be found on the EMA website. 
For additional information, consult your country’s shortage register or contact your national competent authority. 
Key facts 
Medicines affected 
Eli Lilly insulin (various forms) 
Supply shortage status 
Shortage ongoing 
Pharmaceutical forms affected 
Solution for injection 
Suspension for injection 
Availability of alternatives 
Yes 
Key dates 
First published 
 23/03/2026 
Related medicine information 
 Information on shortages and national shortage registers 
 Medicine Shortages Single Point of Contact (SPOC) Working Party 
 National competent authorities (human) 
 Eligible healthcare professionals' organisations 
 Eligible patients and consumers' organisations 
Related shortage information 
 Medicine shortage communications (MSC) 
Medicine Shortage Communication (MSC): Insulin (human insulin) (various short-, rapid-, intermediate-, mixed- and long-acting forms) 2026 
English (EN) (221.78 KB - PDF) 
 First published: 23/03/2026 
 View 
Share this page 
 Back to top 
Product emergency hotline 
OUTSIDE WORKING HOURS 
 About us 
 What we do 
 Careers 
 Committees & working parties 
 Regulatory network 
 European experts 
 About this website 
 Languages 
 Accessibility 
 Glossaries 
 Cookies 
 Website data protection notice 
 Data protection at EMA 
 Frequently asked questions 
 Search tips 
 Access to documents 
 Contacts 
 Send a question 
 EMA Service Desk (system support) 
 Services and databases 
 European Medicines Agency 
Domenico Scarlattilaan 6
1083 HS Amsterdam
The Netherlands 
Tel: +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 How to find us 
 Postal address and deliveries 
 Business hours and holidays 
 RSS Feed 
 Bluesky Follow EMA on Bluesky. Opens in a new window. 
 YouTube Follow EMA on YouTube. Opens in a new window. 
 LinkedIn Follow EMA on LinkedIn. Opens in a new window. 
 © 1995 - 2026 European Medicines Agency 
 European Union agencies network
 An agency of the European Union
