                                                                                             February 24, 2025
Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc.
Geena George
Director, Regulatory Affairs
12400 High Bluff Drive
San Diego, California 92130


Re: K243823
    Trade/Device Name: Control-IQ+ technology
    Regulation Number: 21 CFR 862.1356
    Regulation Name: Interoperable Automated Glycemic Controller
    Regulatory Class: Class II
    Product Code: QJI
    Dated: December 12, 2024
    Received: December 12, 2024

Dear Geena George:

We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.

If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.

Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).


U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue                                                          Doc ID# 04017.07.04
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.gov
K243823 - Geena George                                                                                Page 2



Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).

Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801 and Part 809); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR
Part 803) for devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products
(see https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-
reporting-combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality
systems (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.

All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.

Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
K243823 - Geena George                                                                             Page 3


For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).

                                               Sincerely,


                                               Joshua Balsam -S
                                               Joshua M. Balsam, Ph.D.
                                               Branch Chief
                                               Division of Chemistry
                                                  and Toxicology Devices
                                               OHT7: Office of In Vitro Diagnostics
                                               Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
                                               Center for Devices and Radiological Health

Enclosure
                   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                 Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
                           Food and Drug Administration                                    Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
                                 Indications for Use                                       See PRA Statement below.

Submission Number (ifknown)

IK243823
Device Name
 Control-IQ+ technology

Indications for Use (Describe)
 Control-IQ+ technology is intended for use with compatible integrated continuous glucose monitors
 (iCGM) and alternate controller enabled (ACE) pumps to automatically increase, decrease, and
 suspend delivery of basal insulin based on iCGM readings and predicted glucose values. It can also
 deliver correction boluses when the glucose value is predicted to exceed a predefined threshold.

 Control-IQ+ technology is intended for the management of Type 1 diabetes mellitus in persons 2
 years of age and greater and of Type 2 diabetes mellitus in persons 18 years of age and greater.

 Control-IQ+ technology is intended for single patient use and requires a prescription.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
             ZPrescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D)          F Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)

                                       CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.

                        This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
                *DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
          The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
          time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
          and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
          of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
                                                 Department of Health and Human Services
                                                 Food and Drug Administration
                                                 Office of Chief Information Officer
                                                 Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
                                                 PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
                "An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
                                information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number."
                                      510(k) SUMMARY


  Company                         Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc
                                  12400 High Bluff Drive
                                  San Diego, CA 92130
  Prepared                        12 Dec 2024
  Contact                         Geena George
                                  Director of Regulatory Affairs
                                  ggeorge@tandemdiabetes.com
  Trade Name                      Control-IQ+ technology
  Common Name                     Interoperable Automated Glycemic Controller
  Classification Product Code     QJI
  Classification Name             Interoperable Automated Glycemic Controller
  Regulation Number               21 CFR 862.1356
  Device Class                    Class II
  Predicate Device                K232382, Control-IQ Technology


I. Device Under Review

   Control-IQ+ technology (Control-IQ+, the device) is a software-only device intended for the
   management of type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus. The device controls insulin delivery from
   a compatible alternate controller enabled insulin pump (ACE pump) based on inputs provided
   by a compatible integrated continuous glucose monitor (iCGM) and inputs provided by the
   user (e.g., carbohydrate intake, exercise, and sleep schedule). Control-IQ+ technology is
   meant to be installed on a compatible ACE pump.
   Control-IQ+ technology has three different modes: Normal, Sleep, and Exercise. The glucose
   targets are not individually customizable in these modes but can change based on the mode
   selected. During normal mode, Control-IQ+ technology aims to control glucose within a target
   range of 112.5 – 160 mg/dL. During sleep mode, this range is changed to 112.5-120 mg/dL,
   and it is changed to 140-160 mg/dL during exercise mode.
   Control-IQ+ technology includes an integrated feature whereby iCGM values are
   automatically populated into the glucose field of the integrated bolus calculator when Control-
   IQ + technology is active (i.e., the device is operating in closed-loop mode). This feature is
   disabled when Control-IQ is turned off.
   Control-IQ+ technology requires users to input their weight and their total daily insulin
   requirement, which should be established with the help of a health care provider before using
   the device.
II. Intended Use/ Indications for Use
Control-IQ+ technology is intended for use with compatible integrated continuous glucose
monitors (iCGM) and alternate controller enabled (ACE) pumps to automatically increase,
decrease, and suspend delivery of basal insulin based on iCGM readings and predicted glucose
values. It can also deliver correction boluses when the glucose value is predicted to exceed a
predefined threshold.
Control-IQ+ technology is intended for the management of Type 1 diabetes mellitus in persons 2
years of age and greater and of Type 2 diabetes mellitus in persons 18 years of age and greater.
Control-IQ+ technology is intended for single patient use and requires a prescription.


III. Technological Characteristics Compared to Predicate Device K232382
                            Predicate Device                      Subject Device
                                K232382
Indications for    Control-IQ technology is intended     Control-IQ+ technology is
Use/ Intended      for use with compatible integrated    intended for use with compatible
Use                continuous glucose monitors           integrated continuous glucose
                   (iCGM) and alternate controller       monitors (iCGM) and alternate
                   enabled (ACE) pumps to                controller enabled (ACE) pumps
                   automatically increase, decrease,     to automatically increase,
                   and suspend delivery of basal         decrease, and suspend delivery of
                   insulin based on iCGM readings        basal insulin based on iCGM
                   and predicted glucose values. It      readings and predicted glucose
                   can also deliver correction boluses   values. It can also deliver
                   when the glucose value is             correction boluses when the
                   predicted to exceed a predefined      glucose value is predicted to
                   threshold.                            exceed a predefined threshold.

                   Control-IQ technology is intended     Control-IQ+ technology is
                   for the management of Type 1          intended for the management of
                   diabetes mellitus in persons2         Type 1 diabetes mellitus in
                   years of age and greater.             persons 2 years of age and greater
                                                         and of Type 2 diabetes mellitus
                   Control-IQ technology is intended     in persons 18 years of age and
                   for single patient use and requires   greater.
                   a prescription.
                                                         Control-IQ+ technology is
                                                         intended for single patient use and
                                                         requires a prescription.
Pump Type          Alternate controller enabled                        SAME
                   insulin pump
                           Predicate Device               Subject Device
                              K232382
Specific                                                     SAME
Drug/Biological    U-100 Insulin
Use
Profile Delivery   When the predicted CGM value is           SAME
                   within the target range, the pump
                   will deliver insulin at the rate
                   determined by the active Personal
                   Profile settings.
                   The user’s profile basal rate may
                   be set as high as 15 units/hr when
                   Control-IQ is off and when
                   Control-IQ is enabled same basal
                   rate is applied.
Basal Rate         The Personal Profile correction           SAME
Range              factor is used to determine the
                   predicted basal rate limits of 10 to
                   600 mg/dL per unit insulin.
Basal              When Control-IQ technology                SAME
Attenuation        predicts that the sensor glucose
                   value will be at or below the
                   target range 30 minutes in the
                   future, the rate of insulin
                   delivered will begin to decrease to
                   attempt to keep glucose within the
                   target range.
Automatic          The upper limit for the automatic         SAME
Correction         correction bolus is 600 mg/dL per
Bolus              unit insulin.
Body Weight        20 lbs (9 kg) – 440 lbs (200 kg)          SAME
Setting Range
Total Daily        User setting of 5 units/day - 200         SAME
Insulin Setting    units/day
Range
Extended Bolus     Up to 8-hour duration while               SAME
                   Control-IQ is enabled or disabled
                   and extended boluses are
                   uninterrupted when enabling
                   Control-IQ.
Temporary          Temp Rates can be enabled                 SAME
Basal Rate         without turning Control-IQ
                   Technology off
   IV.     Overview of Non-Clinical and Clinical Performance Tests
           Appropriate testing was performed to confirm the Subject Device met specified
           requirements and performed as intended. See summaries below.
           Usability/Human Factors:
           A Summative Human Factors validation was performed and followed FDA
           recognized standard IEC 62366-1 as well as the FDA guidance document Applying
           Human Factors and Usability Engineering to Medical Devices (February 3, 2016).
           The validation study evaluated a total of 30 individuals with Type 2 diabetes. The
           purpose of the validation was to ensure individuals can safely and effectively perform
           critical tasks associated with the use of Control-IQ+ technology.
           Software Verification and Validation:
           No new software testing was performed to support this 510(k) Notification.
           Special Controls:
           Evaluation and adherence to the Special Controls of the Predicate Device (K232382)
           demonstrates continued assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the Subject
           Device.
           Clinical Testing:
           A pivotal clinical study was conducted to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of
           Control-IQ+ technology in individuals with Type 2 diabetes ages 18 years and older.
           This randomized controlled trial enrolled 319 subjects and the subjects were
           randomly assigned to Control-IQ+ or CGM with continued insulin injections in a 2:1
           ratio. The primary outcome of this study was change in HbA1C between arms at 13
           weeks.
Conclusion:
The changes that have been made to the Control-IQ+ technology indications for use result in a
product that is substantially equivalent to the predicate Control-IQ technology device. The
design of the Control-IQ+ algorithm is unchanged. The intended use and indications for use have
been previously cleared on the Tandem device except for the addition of the Type 2 users ages 18
years or older. The addition of a new user population is supported by clinical trial data that
demonstrates that Control-IQ+ technology is safe and effective in patients with Type 2 diabetes.
Furthermore, the human factors validation with the new user population supports the safety of
Control-IQ+ technology. Thus, the modified Control-IQ+ technology does not raise any different
questions of safety and effectiveness and is considered substantially equivalent to the predicate,
Control-IQ technology (K232382).
