February 15, 2022

Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc.
Ashley Reynolds
Regulatory Affairs Specialist II
11075 Roselle Street
San Diego, CA 92121


Re: K203234
    Trade/Device Name: t:slim X2 Insulin Pump with Interoperable Technology
                         (with t:connect mobile app)
    Regulation Number: 21 CFR 880.5730
    Regulation Name: Alternate controller enabled infusion pump
    Regulatory Class: Class II
    Product Code: QFG
    Dated: August 27, 2021
    Received: August 30, 2021

Dear Ashley Reynolds:

We have reviewed your Section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced
above and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the
enclosure) to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the
enactment date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance
with the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (Act) that do not require approval of a
premarket approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general
controls provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that
some cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
located at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.

If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.

Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal


U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue                                                          Doc ID# 04017.04.31
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.gov
K203234 - Ashley Reynolds                                                                             Page 2


statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801 and Part 809); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR
803) for devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR 4, Subpart A) for
combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections 531-
542 of the Act); 21 CFR 1000-1050.

Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR Part
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.

For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).

                                                 Sincerely,

                                                 Kellie B. Kelm -S
                                                 Kellie B. Kelm, Ph.D.
                                                 Director
                                                 Division of Chemistry
                                                   and Toxicology Devices
                                                 OHT7: Office of In Vitro Diagnostics
                                                   and Radiological Health
                                                 Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
                                                 Center for Devices and Radiological Health

Enclosure
                   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                  Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
                           Food and Drug Administration                                     Expiration Date: 06/30/2023
                                 Indications for Use                                        See PRA Statement below.

510(k) Number (if known)
K203234

Device Name
t:slim X2 Insulin Pump with Interoperable Technology (with t:connect mobile app)

Indications for Use (Describe)

The t:slim X2 insulin pump with interoperable technology (the Pump) is intended for the subcutaneous delivery of insulin,
at set and variable rates, for the management of diabetes mellitus in persons requiring insulin. The Pump is able to reliably
and securely communicate with compatible, digitally connected devices, including automated insulin dosing software, to
receive, execute, and confirm commands from these devices. The Pump is intended for single patient, home use and
requires a prescription. The Pump is indicated for use with NovoLog or Humalog U-100 insulin. The Pump is indicated for
use in individuals 6 years of age and greater.




Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
                  Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D)             Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)

                                       CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.

                        This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
                *DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
          The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
          time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
          and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
          of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
                                                  Department of Health and Human Services
                                                  Food and Drug Administration
                                                  Office of Chief Information Officer
                                                  Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
                                                  PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
                “An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
                                information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”

FORM FDA 3881 (6/20)                                        Page 1 of 1                                   PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740   EF
                                   510(k) Summary: K203234
 Company                          Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc
                                  11075 Roselle Street San Diego, CA 92121
 Prepared                         7 February 2022
 Contact                          Ashley Reynolds
                                  Sr. Regulatory Affairs Specialist I
                                  +1 (858) 401-1725
                                  areynolds@tandemdiabetes.com
 Product Trade Name               t:slim X2 Insulin Pump with Interoperable Technology (with
                                  t:connect mobile app)
 Common Name                      Ambulatory Insulin Pump
 Classification Name              Alternate Controller Enabled Infusion Pump
 Regulation Number                21 CFR 880.5730
 Device Class                     Class II
 Classification Product Code      QFG
 Predicate Device                 K201214 t:slim X2 Insulin Pump with Interoperable
                                  Technology


      I. Purpose of Traditional 510(k)
Request to add the t:connect mobile app that can be wirelessly paired to the t:slim X2 Insulin
Pump with Interoperable Technology (Predicate “The Pump”) for the purposes of allowing
limited control of bolus insulin therapy.
     II. Indications for Use/Intended Use
The t:slim X2 Insulin Pump with Interoperable Technology (The Pump) is intended for the
subcutaneous delivery of insulin, at set and variable rates, for the management of diabetes
mellitus in persons requiring insulin. The Pump is able to reliably and securely communicate
with compatible, digitally connected devices, including automated insulin dosing software, to
receive, execute, and confirm commands from these devices. The Pump is intended for single
patient, home use and requires a prescription. The Pump is indicated for use with NovoLog or
Humalog U-100 insulin. The Pump is indicated for use in individuals 6 years of age and greater.
     III. Subject Device Description and Technological Characteristics
The t:connect mobile app can be wirelessly paired to the t:slim X2 Insulin Pump with
Interoperable Technology, for the purposes of allowing limited control of bolus insulin therapy.
The t:connect mobile app is available on iOS and Android compatible smartphones via the Apple
Store® and Google Play Store®. When successfully paired with The Pump, users have the
ability to perform the following via the t:connect mobile app:
            •   View The Pump therapy data, trends, alerts, alarms, notifications, and reminders
                as a secondary display.
            •   Program Correction Boluses, Bolus Override, and Food (Standard) Boluses.




11075 Roselle Street–›››–San Diego, CA 92121–›››–(858) 366-6900–›››–tandemdiabetes.com
           •   Terminate (Cancel or stop) all bolus types regardless of origin of bolus request
               being made on the t:slim X2 Insulin Pump or the t:connect mobile app.
Outside of programming and terminating boluses, the t:connect mobile app will have no other
controlling action on The Pump.
Important: The Pump functions independently from the t:connect mobile app, therefore users
can still view pump therapy data/trends, program requests, and cancel or stop boluses from their
Pump. The t:connect mobile app does not control, or otherwise impact, any automated dosing
algorithms of Interoperable Automated Glycemic Controllers such as Basal-IQ Technology
(K193483) and Control-IQ Technology (K200467) to aid in diabetes management.
    IV.     Comparison with Predicate
                                 Predicate Device                         Subject Device
                                      K201214                               K203234
Indications            The t:slim X2 insulin pump with
for Use/ IntendedUse   interoperable technology (the Pump)
                       is intended for the subcutaneous
                       delivery of insulin, at set and
                       variable rates, for the management
                       of diabetes mellitus in persons
                       requiring insulin. The Pump is able
                       to reliably and securely
                       communicate with compatible,                            Same
                       digitally connected devices,
                       including automated insulin dosing
                       software, to receive, execute, and
                       confirm commands from these
                       devices. The Pump is intended for
                       single patient, home use and
                       requires a prescription. The Pump is
                       indicated for use with NovoLog or
                       Humalog U-100 insulin. The Pump
                       is indicated for use in individuals 6
                       years of age and greater.

Intended Hardware,        An Alternate Controller Enabled
Materials and             Infusion Pump (cleared under 21                    Same
Accessories               CFR 880.5730)




11075 Roselle Street–›››–San Diego, CA 92121–›››–(858) 366-6900–›››–tandemdiabetes.com
  Principles of         Delivery of insulin (Bolus and Basal)                 Same
  Operation             programmed by the patient based on
                        health care provider
                        recommendations.
  Prescription Use                    Yes                                     Same
  Compatible            The Pump is compatible with:
  Interoperable
  Devices                   •   #DEN170088: Dexcom G6
                                Continuous Glucose                            Same
                                Monitoring System or other
                                compatible iCGM
                            •   #K193483: Basal-IQ
                                Technology
                            •   #K200467: Control IQ
                                Technology
  Includes Bolus                        Yes                                    Same
  Calculator                                                                   ------
                                                                In addition, the t:connect mobile
                                                                app will also include a built-in
                                                                Bolus Calculator that has the same
                                                                purpose and same functionas The
                                                                Pump.

                                                                The Pump shall send the t:connect
                                                                mobile app information required to
                                                                calculate boluses via the Bolus
                                                                Calculator.
  Pump Notifications, The following are visible on The                         Same
  Alerts, and Alarms Pump:                                                      -----
  and Reminders          • Reminders                            The t:connect mobileapp will
  Visible to User        • Alerts                               display The Pump Notifications,
                         • Alarms                               Alerts, and Alarms and Reminders.
                         • Notifications                        The t:connect mobile app cannot
                                                                clear or alter notifications, alerts,
                                                                alarms, and reminders. To clear or
                                                                alter




11075 Roselle Street–›››–San Diego, CA 92121–›››–(858) 366-6900–›››–tandemdiabetes.com
                                                                 these, the user must go to The
                                                                 Pump.

                                                                 The t:connect mobile app will
                                                                 display specific alerts below:

                                                                    •   Pump Connection Lost
                                                                        Alert- t:connect Mobile
                                                                        App
                                                                    •   Incomplete Bolus Alert-
                                                                        t:connect Mobile App
                                                                 The t:connect mobile app will
                                                                 display the specific notification
                                                                 below:
                                                                     • Bolus in Progress on
                                                                        Pump
   Logging records of     Critical events logged by the system                  Same
   critical events        include:                                               ----
                          -A record of all drug delivery         All critical events remain stored
                          -Commands issued to the pump and       by the system.
                          pump confirmations
                          - Device malfunctions                  In addition, The Pump will also
                          -Alarms and alerts and associated      log bolus requests and
                          acknowledgements                       terminations (cancelling and
                          -Connectivity events (e.g.,            stopping a bolus) from the
                          establishment or loss of               t:connect mobile app.
                          communications)
                                                                 The t:connect mobile app will
                                                                 also log actions of bolus
                                                                 requests and bolus terminations.

     V.    Discussion of the Non-Clinical Testing
Human factors and software verification and validation tests were conducted to confirm that the
Subject Device when paired with the t:connect mobile app, met specified requirements, and
performed as intended.
Human factors validation testing was conducted to demonstrate the intended users can effectively
use the Subject Device for its intended purpose in expected use environments. Usability tasks were
evaluated in accordance to ANSI AAMI HE 75:2009 Human Factors Engineering- Design of
Medical Devices, ANSI/AAMI/IEC 62366-1:2015 Medical devices - Part 1: Application of
Usability Engineering To Medical Devices and Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff - Applying
Human Factors and Usability Engineering to Medical Devices - February 3, 2016. The results from
the human factors study demonstrates users can safely and effectively use the feature of the Subject
Device.



11075 Roselle Street–›››–San Diego, CA 92121–›››–(858) 366-6900–›››–tandemdiabetes.com
Software development activities included establishing detailed software requirements, linking
requirements with associated verification and validation activities, software code inspection,
software code walkthrough, static code analysis, unit testing, and system level testing to ensure
that the software conforms to patient needs and intended uses. Software verification and
validation testing was carried out in accordance with ISO 14971:2019 Medical Devices -
Application of Risk Management to Medical Devices, ANSI AAMI IEC 62304:2006/A1:2016
Medical Device Software - Software Life Cycle Processes, FDA guidance General Principles of
Software Validation: Final Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff, Mobile Medical Applications –
Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff, February 9, 2015, and FDA
guidance Multiple Function Device Products: Policy and Considerations- Guidance for Industry
and Food and Drug Administration Staff, July 29, 2020.
In addition, Cybersecurity evaluations were carried out in accordance to Content of Premarket
Submissions for Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices- Guidance for Industry and
Food and Drug Administration Staff, both Final and Draft versions issued October 2, 2014 and
October 18, 2018 respectively.
Evaluation and adherence of the Special Controls listed in the Predicate Device (K201214),
demonstrate continued assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the addition of the t:connect
mobile app as a compatible interoperable device.


    VI.    Discussion of Clinical Testing
No new clinical testing was required for this Traditional 510(k) Notification.


    VII.    Conclusions
The t:slim X2 Insulin Pump with Interoperable Technology (with t:connect mobile app) has
been evaluated to be substantially equivalent to the Predicate and does not raise any new or
different questions of safety or effectiveness.




11075 Roselle Street–›››–San Diego, CA 92121–›››–(858) 366-6900–›››–tandemdiabetes.com
