November 3, 2023

Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc.
Christin Dunn
Senior Regulatory Affairs Specialist
12400 High Bluff Drive
San Diego, California 92130


Re: K232382
    Trade/Device Name: Control-IQ Technology
    Regulation Number: 21 CFR 862.1356
    Regulation Name: Interoperable Automated Glycemic Controller
    Regulatory Class: Class II
    Product Code: QJI
    Dated: August 7, 2023
    Received: August 8, 2023

Dear Christin Dunn:

We have reviewed your Section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced
above and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the
enclosure) to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the
enactment date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance
with the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (Act) that do not require approval of a
premarket approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general
controls provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that
some cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
located at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.

If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.

Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801 and Part 809); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR


U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue                                                          Doc ID# 04017.06.03
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.gov
K232382 - Christin Dunn                                                                              Page 2


803) for devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR 4, Subpart B) for combination products (see
https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-reporting-
combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality systems (QS)
regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR 4, Subpart A) for
combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control provisions (Sections 531-
542 of the Act); 21 CFR 1000-1050.

Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR Part
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.

For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).

                                                Sincerely,

                                                 Joshua Balsam -S
                                                Joshua M. Balsam, Ph.D.
                                                Branch Chief
                                                Division of Chemistry
                                                  and Toxicology Devices
                                                OHT7: Office of In Vitro Diagnostics
                                                Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
                                                Center for Devices and Radiological Health

Enclosure
                   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                  Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
                           Food and Drug Administration                                     Expiration Date: 06/30/2023
                                 Indications for Use                                        See PRA Statement below.

510(k) Number (if known)
K232382

Device Name
Control-IQ Technology



Indications for Use (Describe)
Control-IQ technology is intended for use with compatible integrated continuous glucose monitors (iCGM) and alternate
controller enabled (ACE) pumps to automatically increase, decrease, and suspend delivery of basal insulin based on
iCGM readings and predicted glucose values. It can also deliver correction boluses when the glucose value is predicted to
exceed a predefined threshold.

Control-IQ technology is intended for the management of Type 1 diabetes mellitus in persons 2 years of age and greater.

Control IQ technology is intended for single patient use and requires a prescription.




Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
                  Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D)             Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)

                                       CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.

                        This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
                *DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
          The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
          time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
          and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
          of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
                                                  Department of Health and Human Services
                                                  Food and Drug Administration
                                                  Office of Chief Information Officer
                                                  Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
                                                  PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
                “An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
                                information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”

FORM FDA 3881 (6/20)                                        Page 1 of 1                                   PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740   EF
   510(K) SUMMARY FOR K232382

In accordance with 21 CFR 807.87(h) and (21 CFR 807.92), the 510(k) Summary for Control-IQ
Technology is provided below:

Submitter Information

Name                        Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc.

                            12400 High Bluff Drive

                            San Diego, CA 92130

                            Phone: 858-366-6900

Applicant Contact           Christin Dunn

                            Senior Regulatory Affairs Specialist

                            Phone: 858-401-1641

                            cdunn@tandemdiabetes.com

                            Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc.

                            12400 High Bluff Drive

                            San Diego, CA 92130

Secondary Contact           Lan Herrington

                            Director, Regulatory Affairs

                            (858) 255-6378

                            LHerrington@tandemdiabetes.com

                            Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc.

                            12400 High Bluff Drive

                            San Diego, CA 92130

Date Prepared:              October 26, 2023
Device Identification

Trade name                    Control-IQ Technology

Common name                   interoperable automated glycemic controller

Regulation Name               interoperable automated glycemic controller

Classification number 21 CFR 862.1356

Product code                  QJI

Regulatory class              II

Predicate devices             Control-IQ Technology (K200467)

Intended Use

Control-IQ technology is intended for use with compatible integrated continuous glucose
monitors (iCGM) and alternate controller enabled (ACE) pumps to automatically increase,
decrease, and suspend delivery of basal insulin based on iCGM readings and predicted glucose
values. It can also deliver correction boluses when the glucose value is predicted to exceed a
predefined threshold.

Control-IQ technology is intended for the management of Type 1 diabetes mellitus in persons 2
years of age and greater.

Control-IQ technology is intended for single patient use and requires a prescription.

Description

Control-IQ technology (Control-IQ, the device) is a software-only device intended for the
management of type 1 diabetes mellitus. The device controls insulin delivery from a compatible
alternate controller enabled insulin pump (ACE pump) based on inputs provided by a compatible
integrated continuous glucose monitor (iCGM) and inputs provided the user (e.g., carbohydrate
intake, exercise, and sleep schedule). Control-IQ technology is meant to be installed on a
compatible ACE pump.

Control-IQ Technology has three different modes: Normal, Sleep, and Exercise. The glucose
targets are not customizable in these modes but can change based on the mode selected. During
normal mode, Control-IQ Technology aims to control glucose within a target range of 112.5 – 160
mg/dL. During sleep mode, this range is changed to 112.5-120 mg/dL, and it is changed to 140-
160 mg/dL during exercise mode.

Control-IQ technology includes an integrated feature whereby iCGM values are automatically
populated into the glucose field of the integrated bolus calculator when the Control-IQ
technology is active (i.e., the device is operating in closed-loop mode). This feature is disabled
when Control-IQ is turned off.

Control-IQ technology requires users to input their weight and their total daily insulin
requirement, which should be established with the help of a health care provider before using
the device.
Technological Characteristics Compared to Predicate Device

                           PREDICATE DEVICE
                                                                   SUBJECT DEVICE
                        CONTROL-IQ TECHNOLOGY
                                                                     (K232382)
                              (K200467)
                      Control-IQ technology is
                                                          Control-IQ technology is intended
                      intended for use with
                                                          for use with compatible integrated
                      compatible integrated
                                                          continuous glucose monitors
                      continuous glucose monitors
                                                          (iCGM) and alternate controller
                      (iCGM) and alternate controller
                                                          enabled (ACE) pumps to
                      enabled (ACE) pumps to
                                                          automatically increase, decrease,
                      automatically increase, decrease,
                                                          and suspend delivery of basal
                      and suspend delivery of basal
                                                          insulin based on iCGM readings
                      insulin based on iCGM readings
                                                          and predicted glucose values. It can
                      and predicted glucose values. It
                                                          also deliver correction boluses
                      can also deliver correction
                                                          when the glucose value is
                      boluses when the glucose value
     Intended                                             predicted to exceed a predefined
 Use/Indication For   is predicted to exceed a
                                                          threshold.
        Use           predefined threshold.


                                                          Control-IQ technology is intended
                      Control-IQ technology is
                                                          for the management of Type 1
                      intended for the management of
                                                          diabetes mellitus in persons 2
                      Type 1 diabetes mellitus in
                                                          years of age and greater.
                      persons 6 years of age and
                      greater.
                                                          Control-IQ technology is intended
                                                          for single patient use and requires
                      Control-IQ technology is
                                                          a prescription.
                      intended for single patient use
                      and requires a prescription.
                    Control-IQ technology is
                    indicated for use with NovoLog
                    or Humalog U-100 insulin




                    Alternate controller enabled
   Pump Type                                            Same
                    insulin pump


  Classification    II                                  Same

    Specific
 Drug/Biological    U-100 Insulin                       Same
      Use
                    When the predicted CGM value        When the predicted CGM value is
                    is within the target range, the     within the target range, the pump
                    pump will deliver insulin at the    will deliver insulin at the rate
                    rate determined by the active       determined by the active Personal
                    Personal Profile settings.          Profile settings.
 Profile Delivery
                    The user’s profile basal rate may   The user’s profile basal rate may be
                    be set as high as 15 units/hr       set as high as 15 units/hr when
                    when Control-IQ is off, but is      Control-IQ is off and when Control-
                    clipped to 3 units/hr when          IQ is enabled, the same basal rate
                    Control-IQ is enabled               is applied.

                    The Personal Profile correction     The Personal Profile correction
                    factor is used to determine the     factor is used to determine the
Basal Rate Range
                    predicted basal rate limits of 10   predicted basal rate limits of 10 to
                    to 200 mg/dL per unit insulin.      600 mg/dL per unit insulin.


Basal Attenuation   When Control-IQ technology          Same
                   predicts that the sensor glucose
                   value will be at or below the
                   target range 30 minutes in the
                   future, the rate of insulin
                   delivered will begin to decrease
                   to attempt to keep glucose
                   within the target range.

                   The upper limit for the            The upper limit for the automatic
   Automatic       automatic correction bolus is      correction bolus is 600 mg/dL per
Correction Bolus
                   200 mg/dL per unit insulin.        unit insulin.

 Body Weight       55 lbs (25 kg) – 308 lbs (140kg)   20 lbs (9 kg) – 440 lbs (200 kg)
 Setting Range

                                                      User setting of 5 units/day - 200
                   User setting of 10 units/day -
                                                      units/day.
   TDI Range
                   100 units/day.



                   Up to 2-hour duration when
                                                      Up to 8-hour duration while
                   Control-IQ is enabled, up to 8
                                                      Control-IQ is enabled or disabled
                   hour duration when Control-IQ is
                                                      and extended boluses are
                   disabled.
Extended Bolus                                        uninterrupted when enabling
                   Extended bolus delivery will be    Control-IQ.
                   terminated when Control-IQ is
                   enabled.

                   In order to use Temp Rates,        Temp Rates can be enabled
Temporary Basal    Control-IQ technology must be      without turning Control-IQ
    Rates
                   turned off                         Technology off
Performance Data

Software verification and validation testing was performed in accordance with ANSI AAMI IEC
62304:2006/A1:2016 Medical Device Software - Software Life Cycle Processes.

Evaluation and adherence to the Special Controls (21 CRF 862.1356) demonstrate continued
assurance of safety and effectiveness of the Subject Device.

Clinical Performance

A pivotal clinical study was conducted to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of Control-IQ
Technology in individuals 2-5 years of age. This randomized controlled trial enrolled 102 subjects
and the subjects were randomly assigned to Control-IQ or Standard Care (SC) in a 2:1 ratio. The
subjects used the t:slim X2 insulin pump with Control-IQ Technology for 13 weeks. Upon
completion of the 13 week study, participants could then enroll in an optional 13 week extension
phase with the modified Control-IQ technology. Individuals assigned to the SC group were then
moved to the Control-IQ group during this extension phase. The primary outcome of the study
was CGM measured percent time in range 70-180 mg/dL.

Substantial Equivalence

The changes that have been made to the Control-IQ technology indications for use and software
result in a product that is substantially equivalent to the predicate Control-IQ technology device.
The intended use and indications for use have been previously cleared on the Tandem device
except for the change in age from 6 to 2 years of age and greater. The changes to Control-IQ
technology and the change in age are supported by clinical trial data that demonstrates that the
devices are substantially equivalent. Moreover, software testing demonstrates that the device
performs as expected and in a manner that is substantially equivalent to the predicate device.
Thus, the modified Tandem Diabetes Care Control-IQ technology is substantially equivalent to
the predicate Tandem Diabetes Care Control-IQ technology (K200467).
