                                                                                             November 6, 2025

Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc.
Omar Mirza
Senior Regulatory Affairs Specialist
12400 High Bluff Drive
San Diego, California 92130


Re: K253074
    Trade/Device Name: Tandem Mobi insulin pump with interoperable technology
    Regulation Number: 21 CFR 880.5730
    Regulation Name: Alternate controller enabled infusion pump
    Regulatory Class: Class II
    Product Code: QFG
    Dated: September 22, 2025
    Received: September 23, 2025

Dear Omar Mirza:

We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.

If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.

Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"



U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue                                                          Doc ID# 04017.08.02
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.gov
K253074 - Omar Mirza                                                                                  Page 2


(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).

Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).

Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801 and Part 809); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR
Part 803) for devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products
(see https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-
reporting-combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality
systems (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.

All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.

Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
K253074 - Omar Mirza                                                                              Page 3


For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).

                                               Sincerely,


                                               JOSHUA BALSAM -S
                                               Joshua M. Balsam, Ph.D.
                                               Branch Chief
                                               Division of Chemistry and
                                                 Toxicology Devices
                                               OHT7: Office of In Vitro Diagnostics
                                               Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
                                               Center for Devices and Radiological Health

Enclosure
                   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                  Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
                           Food and Drug Administration                                     Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
                                 Indications for Use                                        See PRA Statement below.

510(k) Number (if known)
K253074

Device Name
Tandem Mobi insulin pump with interoperable technology



Indications for Use (Describe)
The Tandem Mobi insulin pump with interoperable technology (the pump) is intended for the subcutaneous delivery of
insulin, at set and variable rates, for the management of diabetes mellitus in persons requiring insulin. The pump is able to
reliably and securely communicate with compatible, digitally connected devices, including automated insulin dosing
software, to receive, execute, and confirm commands from these devices.

The pump is intended for single patient, home use and requires a prescription. The pump is indicated for use in individuals
2 years of age and greater.

Control-IQ+ technology is intended for use with compatible interoperable continuous glucose monitors (iCGM), alternate
controller enabled (ACE) pumps to automatically increase, decrease, and suspend delivery of basal insulin based on
iCGM readings and predicted glucose values. It can also deliver correction boluses when the glucose value is predicted to
exceed a predefined threshold.

Control-IQ+ technology is not a substitute for your own active diabetes management. Control-IQ+ technology is intended
for the management of Type 1 diabetes mellitus in persons 2 years of age and greater and of Type 2 diabetes mellitus in
persons 18 years of age and greater. Control-IQ+ technology is intended for single patient use and requires a prescription




Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
                  Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D)             Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)

                                       CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.

                        This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
                *DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
          The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
          time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
          and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
          of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
                                                  Department of Health and Human Services
                                                  Food and Drug Administration
                                                  Office of Chief Information Officer
                                                  Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
                                                  PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
                “An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
                                information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”

FORM FDA 3881 (8/23)                                        Page 1 of 1                                   PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740   EF
                                       510(k) Summary



     Company                        Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc
                                    12400 High Bluff Drive
                                    San Diego, CA 92130
     Prepared                       22 Sept 2025
     Contact                        Omar Mirza
                                    Sr. Regulatory Affairs Specialist
                                    +1 (954) 6082297
                                    omirza@tandemdiabetes.com
     Trade Name                     Tandem Mobi insulin pump with interoperable technology
     Common Name                    Ambulatory Insulin Pump
     Classification Product Code    QFG
     Classification Name            Alternate Controller Enabled Infusion Pump
     Regulation Number              21 CFR 880.5730
     Device Class                   Class II
     Predicate Device               K241078, Tandem Mobi Insulin Pump with interoperable
                                    technology



I.     Device Under Review
       The Subject Device, Tandem Mobi insulin pump with interoperable technology (“Mobi
       pump”, “the pump”), is an Alternate Controller Enabled (ACE) Infusion Pump intended for
       the infusion of insulin into a patient requiring insulin therapy. The Tandem Mobi insulin
       pump with interoperable technology (“pump”) is screenless and includes visual LED, sound,
       and vibratory indicators to alert the user of the pump status. The Tandem Mobi insulin pump
       with interoperable technology system also includes: the Tandem Mobi mobile application and
       a 2mL (200 insulin unit) Tandem Mobi cartridge and a compatible FDA cleared infusion set.
       The Tandem Mobi mobile application (“mobile app”) displays all information from, and is
       the primary controller of, the pump. Through the mobile app, users will program all aspects
       of basal and bolus insulin delivery therapy including managing personal profiles, viewing
       pump and CGM data, and actively acknowledging all pump and mobile app alerts, alarms,
       reminders, notifications, and messages. The Tandem Mobi mobile application will also be
       used to transmit historical pump and mobile app therapy data to the Tandem Cloud. The
       Tandem Mobi mobile application will be made available via the Android Play® App store for
       Android-compatible smartphones based on completed device verification and validation. The
       Tandem Mobi cartridge is a disposable insulin cartridge compatible only with the Tandem
       Mobi pump.
   The Tandem Mobi ACE pump can be used for basal and bolus insulin delivery with or
   without a CGM or with any compatible interoperable automated dosing algorithm.

   The pump may be used in combination with a compatible continuous glucose monitor
   (CGM) system. Use of CGM is optional.


II. Intended Use/ Indications for Use

  The Tandem Mobi insulin pump with interoperable technology (the pump) is intended for the
  subcutaneous delivery of insulin, at set and variable rates, for the management of diabetes
  mellitus in persons requiring insulin. The pump is able to reliably and securely communicate
  with compatible, digitally connected devices, including automated insulin dosing software, to
  receive, execute, and confirm commands from these devices.

  The pump is intended for single patient, home use and requires a prescription.

  The pump is indicated for use in individuals 2 years of age and greater.


III. Technological Characteristics Compared to Predicate Device K241078

                                  Predicate Device                           Subject Device
                                      K241078
Intended Use/     The Tandem Mobi Insulin Pump with                             SAME
Indications for   interoperable technology (the pump) is
Use               intended for the subcutaneous delivery of
                  insulin, at set and variable rates, for the
                  management of diabetes mellitus in persons
                  requiring insulin. The pump is able to
                  reliably and securely communicate with
                  compatible, digitally connected devices,
                  including automated insulin dosing software,
                  to receive, execute, and confirm commands
                  from these devices.

                  The pump is intended for single patient,
                  home use and requires a prescription.

                  The pump is indicated for use in individuals
                  2 years of age and greater.
Prescription      Prescription is required.                                     SAME
Use
Insulin Type      NovoLog U-100 insulin                                         SAME
                  Humalog U-100 insulin
                                Predicate Device                  Subject Device
                                    K241078
Infusion Set      Compatible, FDA cleared infusions sets with          SAME
Type              t:lock connectors manufactured for Tandem
                  Diabetes Care.
Pump Type         An Alternate Controller Enabled Infusion             SAME
                  Pump (21 CFR 880.5730)
Compatible        Compatible with:                            Compatible with:
Interoperable         • DEN170088: Dexcom G6 Continuous
Devices                   Glucose Monitoring System or other    • K213919: Dexcom
                          compatible iCGM                          G7 Continuous
                      • K200467: Control-IQ technology             Glucose Monitoring
                                                                   System or other
                                                                   compatible iCGM

                                                                •   K250798: Control-
                                                                    IQ+ technology

Communication Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE)                              SAME
with
Compatible
Interoperable
Devices
Principles of   Delivery of Insulin (Bolus and Basal)                 SAME
Operation       programmed by patient based on health care
                provider recommendations.
Pump            The Device is an ambulatory, battery                  SAME
Technological   operated, rate-programmable infusion pump
Characteristics designed for the subcutaneous delivery of
                insulin, at set and variable rates, for the
                management of diabetes mellitus in persons
                requiring insulin. The device includes a
                disposable cartridge which is motor driven to
                deliver patient programmed basal rates and
                boluses through an infusion set into
                subcutaneous tissue.
Alarm Type       Visual, audible, and vibratory                       SAME
Bolus           The Device contains a built-in bolus                  SAME
Calculator      calculator
Bolus and Basal Yes                                                   SAME
Insulin Control
Display of      The Device can display Glucose and Therapy            SAME
Primary         information and trends from the pump and
Glucose and     compatible interoperable devices.
Therapy
Information
                                 Predicate Device                      Subject Device
                                      K241078
                  The pump does not include a graphical user
                  interface. Instead, Primary Glucose and
                  Therapy information and trends from the
                  pump and compatible interoperable devices
                  are displayed in the Tandem Mobi mobile
                  application.
Mobi Mobile       The Tandem Mobi mobile app                    The Tandem Mobi mobile
App               is currently available via the                app will be made available
Availability      Apple® App Store® for iOS                     via the Google® Play store
                  compatible smartphones.                       for Android compatible
                                                                smartphones.
Mobile App        The Mobi mobile app (iOS) has the             Subject device has the same
Functionalities   following functionalities:                    functionalities mentioned in
                                                                the predicate device.
                     •   View Pump therapy data, trends,
                         alerts, alarms, notifications, and     Some minor differences
                         reminders.                             include:

                     •   Program Correction Boluses, Bolus         •    Native Android
                                                                        User Interface
                         Override, and Food (Standard)
                                                                        Controls: Standard
                         Boluses.                                       Android UI
                                                                        components
                     •   Terminate (Cancel or stop) all bolus
                         types regardless of origin of bolus       •    Location Permission
                         request being made on the Tandem               requirement for
                         Mobi insulin pump or the Tandem                Bluetooth® pairing
                         Mobi mobile app.
                                                                   •    Update historical
                                                                        pump data to
                     •   Display history logs
                                                                        Tandem Source
                                                                        Cloud
                     •   Update historical pump data to
                         Tandem Cloud                              •    History logs will not
                                                                        be displayed on the
                     •   Mobile Tandem Device Updater                   Mobi Android
                         (mTDU)                                         mobile application.
                                                                        The historical pump
                                                                        data will continue to
                                                                        be uploaded to the
                                                                        Tandem Source
                                                                        Cloud, which allows
                                                                        users to view the
                                                                        historical pump data
                                 Predicate Device                         Subject Device
                                    K241078
                                                                           on Tandem Source

Remote             Pump                                            Pump
software           Remote software updates available via
updates            Mobile Tandem Device Updater (mTDU) via         SAME
                   Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) Radio on
                   the Mobi Pump to review remote software         Mobile App
                   updates. mTDU is not a medical device.          Updated via the Google®
                                                                   Play App store.
                   Mobile App
                   Updated via the Apple® App Store®.
Sterilization      The pump is provided non-sterile.                          SAME

                   The cartridge is provided sterile via E-Beam
                   (Irradiation) to a Sterility Assurance Level
                   ,SAL 10-6.
Cartridge          Every 3 days for compatible insulins.                      SAME
Length of Use


   IV.     Overview of Non-Clinical Performance Tests
           Appropriate testing was performed to confirm the Subject Device met specified
           requirements and performed as intended. See summaries below.

           Usability/Human Factors:

           The Tandem Mobi system was previously validated for usability with the cleared
           predicate device. For this 510(k) Notification, no new human factors validation
           testing was required because the Android mobile application represents a platform
           translation of the existing iOS app. While platform-specific functional differences
           exist, no new user-facing features, workflows, or critical tasks were introduced.

           A comparative use-related risk analysis was performed to evaluate the impact of
           translating the user interface to the Android operating system. This analysis
           confirmed that no new critical tasks were introduced, and no existing critical tasks
           were impacted. Formative testing and human factors validation were therefore not
           repeated. The intended users, use environments, and user interface specifications
           remain consistent with the predicate system, and the Android mobile application can
           be safely and effectively used as intended.
Software Verification and Validation:
The Android version of the Tandem Mobi mobile application was developed under
Tandem’s quality system in compliance with IEC 62304 and IEC 82304. The software
lifecycle included documented requirements, design, risk management, and
traceability through verification and validation. Verification activities included unit
testing, code reviews, static analysis, and system integration testing. Validation
confirmed end-to-end functionality of the Android version of the Tandem Mobi
mobile application with the Mobi pump, a compatible continuous glucose monitor,
and the Tandem Source cloud. Testing was performed independently from
development to ensure objectivity. All acceptance criteria were met, demonstrating
that the software performs as intended and introduces no new hazards relative to the
predicate device.

Electrical Safety/ EMC:

Electrical safety testing in accordance with IEC 60601-1 requirements was previously
completed at the system level for the Tandem Mobi pump hardware. The Android
mobile application does not alter the pump’s hardware design, electrical energy
transfer, or safety-related functions; therefore, the previous results remain applicable
to this submission. For the current submission, testing related to electromagnetic
compatibility (EMC) and wireless function were conducted to evaluate the Tandem
Mobi Pump System with the Android mobile application.

To qualify the Android mobile application, reduced-scope testing was successfully
performed to satisfy IEC 61000-4-3:2020 and IEC 61000-4-39:2017 per (IEC 60601-
1-2:2014/A1:2020 (Ed. 4.1)), ANSI C63.27-2021, and RTCA DO-160G (2010)
testing requirements to evaluate electromagnetic immunity, wireless coexistence,
bluetooth range, and household emitter interference. Testing confirmed acceptable
pump-to-app and pump-to-CGM communication under conditions presented by the
test standards and test protocols.

Results demonstrated that the limited-scope Android testing was consistent with the
prior iOS full-scope testing and did not introduce EMC risks. Collectively, the
combined body of evidence confirms the Tandem Mobi system maintains safe and
effective performance under electromagnetic stress and wireless coexistence
conditions, supporting substantial equivalence to the cleared predicate device.
           Insulin Compatibility and Biocompatibility:
           No new insulin compatibility or biocompatibility testing was required for this 510(k)
           Notification. The Tandem Mobi cartridge, infusion sets, and patient-contacting
           materials remain unchanged from the predicate device.

           Sterilization and Shipping:

           No changes were made to sterilization methods or packaging integrity as part of this
           510(k) Notification. The disposable Tandem Mobi insulin cartridge continues to be
           terminally sterilized using e-beam irradiation and validated per ISO 11137.

           Special Controls:

           Evaluation and adherence to the Special Controls of the Predicate Device (K241078)
           demonstrates continued assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the Subject
           Device.
           Clinical Testing:

           No new clinical testing was provided to support this 510(k) Notification.



Conclusion:
The Subject Device serves the same function as the Predicate Device. Furthermore, the Subject
Device performs insulin therapy functions that are the same as that of the Predicate Device. The
required technical documentation provided in this 510(k) demonstrates the Subject Device is as
safe and as effective as the Predicate Device. Therefore, the Subject Device has been evaluated
to be substantially equivalent to the Predicate Device and does not raise new or different
questions of safety or effectiveness.
