                                                                                                 April 24, 2026
Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc.
Geena George
Regulatory Affairs
12400 High Bluff Drive
San Diego, CA 92130

Re: K260429
    Trade/Device Name: Control-IQ+ technology
    Regulation Number: 21 CFR 862.1356
    Regulation Name: Interoperable automated glycemic controller
    Regulatory Class: Class II
    Product Code: QJI
    Dated: February 10, 2026
    Received: February 10, 2026

Dear Geena George:

We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.

If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.

Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).
K260429 - Geena George                                                                                Page 2



Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).

Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801 and Part 809); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR
Part 803) for devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products
(see https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-
reporting-combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality
systems (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.

All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.

Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.
K260429 - Geena George                                                                            Page 3


For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).


                                               Sincerely,


                                               JOSHUA BALSAM -S
                                               Joshua M. Balsam, Ph.D.
                                               Branch Chief
                                               Division of Chemistry and
                                                 Toxicology Devices
                                               OHT7: Office of In Vitro Diagnostics
                                               Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
                                               Center for Devices and Radiological Health

Enclosure
                   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                  Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
                           Food and Drug Administration                                     Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
                                 Indications for Use                                        See PRA Statement below.

510(k) Number (if known)
Control-IQ+ technology

Device Name

K260429

Indications for Use (Describe)

Control-IQ+ technology is intended for use with compatible integrated continuous glucose monitors (iCGM) and alternate
controller enabled (ACE) pumps to automatically increase, decrease, and suspend delivery of basal insulin based on
iCGM readings and predicted glucose values. It can also deliver correction boluses when the glucose value is predicted to
exceed a predefined threshold.

Control-IQ+ technology is intended for the management of Type 1 diabetes mellitus in persons 2 years of age and greater
and of Type 2 diabetes mellitus in persons 18 years of age and greater.

Control-IQ+ technology is intended for use in pregnancy complicated by Type 1 diabetes mellitus, provided the linked
CGM system is suitable for use in pregnancy.

Control-IQ+ technology is intended for single patient use and requires a prescription.




Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
                  Prescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D)             Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)

                                       CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.

                         This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
                *DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
          The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
          time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
          and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
          of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
                                                  Department of Health and Human Services
                                                  Food and Drug Administration
                                                  Office of Chief Information Officer
                                                  Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
                                                  PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
                “An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
                                information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number.”

FORM FDA 3881 (8/23)                                        Page 1 of 1                                   PSC Publishing Services (301) 443-6740   EF
                                         510(k) Summary

     Company                         Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc
                                     12400 High Bluff Drive
                                     San Diego, CA 92130
     Prepared                        10 February 2026
     Contact                         Amulya Mallavarapu
                                     Sr. Regulatory Affairs Specialist
                                     +1 (857) 452 0773
                                     amallavarapu@tandemdiabetes.com
     Trade Name                      Control-IQ+ technology
     Common Name                     Interoperable Automated Glycemic Controller
     Classification Product Code     QJI
     Classification Name             Interoperable Automated Glycemic Controller
     Regulation Number               21 CFR 862.1356
     Device Class                    Class II
     Predicate Device                K250798, Control-IQ+ technology



I.     Device Under Review
       The Subject Device, Control-IQ+ technology (“Control-IQ+”) is a software-only device
       intended for the management of type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus. The device controls
       insulin delivery from a compatible alternate controller enabled insulin pump (ACE pump)
       based on inputs provided by a compatible integrated continuous glucose monitor (iCGM) and
       inputs provided by the user (e.g., carbohydrate intake, exercise, and sleep schedule). Control-
       IQ+ technology is meant to be installed on a compatible ACE pump.

       Control-IQ+ technology has three different modes: Normal, Sleep, and Exercise. The glucose
       targets are not individually customizable in these modes but can change based on the mode
       selected. During Normal mode, Control-IQ+ technology aims to control glucose within a
       target range of 112.5 – 160 mg/dL, during Sleep mode the target range is 112.5 – 120 mg/dL,
       and during Exercise mode the target range is 140 – 160 mg/dL.

       Control-IQ+ technology includes an integrated feature whereby iCGM values are
       automatically populated into the glucose field of the integrated bolus calculator when
       Control-IQ+ technology is active (i.e., the device is operating in closed-loop mode). This
       feature is disabled when Control-IQ is turned off.

       Control-IQ+ technology requires users to input their weight and their total daily insulin
       requirement, which should be established with the help of a health care provider before using
       the device.
II. Intended Use/ Indications for Use

  Control-IQ+ technology is intended for use with compatible integrated continuous glucose
  monitors (iCGM) and alternate controller enabled (ACE) pumps to automatically increase,
  decrease, and suspend delivery of basal insulin based on iCGM readings and predicted
  glucose values. It can also deliver correction boluses when the glucose value is predicted to
  exceed a predefined threshold.

  Control-IQ+ technology is intended for the management of Type 1 diabetes mellitus in
  persons 2 years of age and greater and of Type 2 diabetes mellitus in persons 18 years of age
  and greater.

  Control-IQ+ technology is intended for use in pregnancy complicated by Type 1 diabetes
  mellitus, provided the linked CGM system is suitable for use in pregnancy.

  Control-IQ+ technology is intended for single patient use and requires a prescription.



III. Technological Characteristics Compared to Predicate Device K250798

                              Predicate Device                             Subject Device
                                  K250798
Intended Use/     Control-IQ+ technology is intended for       Control-IQ+ technology is intended for
Indications for   use with compatible integrated               use with compatible integrated
Use               continuous glucose monitors (iCGM)           continuous glucose monitors (iCGM)
                  and alternate controller enabled (ACE)       and alternate controller enabled (ACE)
                  pumps to automatically increase,             pumps to automatically increase,
                  decrease, and suspend delivery of            decrease, and suspend delivery of basal
                  basal insulin based on iCGM readings         insulin based on iCGM readings and
                  and predicted glucose values. It can         predicted glucose values. It can also
                  also deliver correction boluses when         deliver correction boluses when the
                  the glucose value is predicted to            glucose value is predicted to exceed a
                  exceed a predefined threshold.               predefined threshold.

                  Control-IQ+ technology is intended for       Control-IQ+ technology is intended for
                  the management of Type 1 diabetes            the management of Type 1 diabetes
                  mellitus in persons 2 years of age and       mellitus in persons 2 years of age and
                  greater Type 2 diabetes mellitus in          greater Type 2 diabetes mellitus in
                  persons 18 years of age and greater.         persons 18 years of age and greater.

                  Control-IQ+ technology is intended for       Control-IQ+ technology is intended for
                  single patient use and requires a            use in pregnancy complicated by Type 1
                  prescription.                                diabetes mellitus, provided the linked
                                                               CGM system is suitable for use in
                                                               pregnancy.
                               Predicate Device                               Subject Device
                                  K250798
                                                                  Control-IQ+ technology is intended for
                                                                  single patient use and requires a
                                                                  prescription.
Pump Type          An Alternate Controller Enabled                                 Identical
                   Infusion Pump
Prescription       Prescription is required.                                     Identical
Use
Compatible         NovoLog U-100 insulin                                         Identical
Insulins           Humalog U-100 insulin
                   Lyumjev U-100 Insulin
Profile Delivery   When the predicted CGM value is                               Identical
                   within the target range, the pump will
                   deliver insulin at the rate determined by
                   the active Personal Profile settings.
                   The user’s profile basal rate may be set
                   as high as 15 units/hr when Control-IQ
                   is off and when Control-IQ is enabled
                   same basal rate is applied.
Basal Rate         The Personal Profile correction factor is                     Identical
Range              used to determine the predicted basal
                   rate limits of 10 to 600 mg/dL per unit
                   insulin.
Basal              When Control-IQ+ technology predicts                          Identical
Attenuation        that the sensor glucose value will be
                   at or below the target range 30
                   minutes in the future, the rate of
                   insulin delivered will begin to
                   decrease to attempt to keep glucose
                   within the target range.
Automatic          The upper limit for the automatic correction                  Identical
Correction bonus   bolus is 600 mg/dl per unit insulin.
Body Weight        20 lbs (9kg)-440 lbs (200 kg)                                 Identical
Setting Range
Total Daily        User setting of 5 units/day - 200                             Identical
Insulin Setting    units/day
Range
Extended Bolus     Up to 8-hour duration while Control-IQ+ is                    Identical
                   extended or disable and extended boluses
                   are uninterrupted when enabling Control-
                   IQ+.
Temporary Basal    Temp Rates can be enabled without turning                     Identical
Rate               Control-IQ+ technology off.
   IV.     Overview of Non-Clinical Performance Tests
           Appropriate testing was performed to confirm the Subject Device met specified
           requirements and performed as intended. See summaries below.

           Usability/Human Factors:
           No new Usability/Human Factors testing was performed to support this 510(k)
           Notification.

           Software Verification and Validation:

           No new software testing was performed to support this 510(k) Notification.

           Insulin Compatibility and Biocompatibility:
           No new insulin compatibility or biocompatibility testing was required for this 510(k)
           Notification.

           Special Controls:
           Evaluation and adherence to the Special Controls of the Predicate Device (K250798)
           demonstrates continued assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the Subject
           Device.

           Clinical Testing:
           A pivotal study, “Closed-loop Insulin delivery by glucose Responsive Computer
           algorithms In Type 1 diabetes pregnancies (CIRCUIT)”, was conducted to evaluate
           the safety and effectiveness of using Control-IQ technology in pregnancy complicated
           by type 1 diabetes. In this randomized controlled trial, 91 pregnant women with pre-
           existing type 1 diabetes, ages 18 to 45 years old, were enrolled before 14 weeks
           gestation at 14 clinical sites in Canada and Australia. Participants randomized to
           Control-IQ technology started the system before 16 weeks gestation. The primary
           efficacy endpoint was glycemic control as reflected by percent glucose time-in-range
           (63-140 mg/dL) per day assessed by CGM glucose measurement (16 weeks until 34
           weeks 6 days gestation) compared between groups.



Conclusion:

The Subject Device serves the same function as the Predicate Device. Furthermore, the Subject
Device performs insulin therapy functions that are the same as that of the Predicate Device. The
required technical documentation provided in this 510(k) demonstrates the Subject Device is as
safe and as effective as the Predicate Device. Therefore, the Subject Device has been evaluated
to be substantially equivalent to the Predicate Device and does not raise new or different
questions of safety or effectiveness.
