                                                                                                  May 21, 2025

Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc.
Miriam Chan
Principal Regulatory Affairs Specialist
12400 High Bluff Drive
San Diego, California 92130


Re: K250798
    Trade/Device Name: Control-IQ+ technology
    Regulation Number: 21 CFR 862.1356
    Regulation Name: Interoperable Automated Glycemic Controller
    Regulatory Class: Class II
    Product Code: QJI
    Dated: March 14, 2025
    Received: March 14, 2025

Dear Miriam Chan:

We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.

If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.




U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue                                                          Doc ID# 04017.07.05
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.gov
K250798 - Miriam Chan                                                                                    Page    2

FDA's substantial equivalence determination also included the review and clearance of your Predetermined
Change Control Plan (PCCP). Under section 515C(b)(1) of the Act, a new premarket notification is not
required for a change to a device cleared under section 510(k) of the Act, if such change is consistent with an
established PCCP granted pursuant to section 515C(b)(2) of the Act. Under 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3), a new
premarket notification is required if there is a major change or modification in the intended use of a device,
or if there is a change or modification in a device that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of
the device, e.g., a significant change or modification in design, material, chemical composition, energy
source, or manufacturing process. Accordingly, if deviations from the established PCCP result in a major
change or modification in the intended use of the device, or result in a change or modification in the device
that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, then a new premarket notification
would be required consistent with section 515C(b)(1) of the Act and 21 CFR 807.81(a)(3). Failure to submit
such a premarket submission would constitute adulteration and misbranding under sections 501(f)(1)(B) and
502(o) of the Act, respectively.

Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).

Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).

Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801 and Part 809); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR
Part 803) for devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products
(see https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-
reporting-combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality
systems (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.

All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
K250798 - Miriam Chan                                                                             Page    3

requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.

Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.

For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).

                                               Sincerely,


                                               Joshua Balsam -S
                                               Joshua M. Balsam, Ph.D.
                                               Branch Chief
                                               Division of Chemistry and
                                                 Toxicology Devices
                                               OHT7: Office of In Vitro Diagnostics
                                               Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
                                               Center for Devices and Radiological Health

Enclosure
                         510(k) Summary
     Company                Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc
                            12400 High Bluff Drive
                            San Diego, CA 92130
     Prepared               March 07, 2025
     Contact                Miriam Chan
                            Principal Regulatory Affairs Specialist
                            mchan@tandemdiabetes.com
                            +1(858)202-6553
     Trade Name             Control-IQ+ technology
     Common Name            Interoperable Automated Glycemic Controller
     Classification Product QJI
     Code
     Classification Name    Interoperable Automated Glycemic Controller
     Regulation Number      21 CFR 862.1356
     Device Class           Class II
     Predicate Device       K243823, Control-IQ+ technology


I.    Device Under Review
      The Subject Device, Control-IQ+ technology (“Control-IQ+”) is a software-
      only device intended for the management of type 1 and type 2 diabetes
      mellitus. The device controls insulin delivery from a compatible alternate
      controller enabled insulin pump (ACE pump) based on inputs provided by
      a compatible integrated continuous glucose monitor (iCGM) and inputs
      provided by the user (e.g., carbohydrate intake, exercise, and sleep
      schedule). Control-IQ+ technology is meant to be installed on a compatible
      ACE pump.
      Control-IQ+ technology has three different modes: Normal, Sleep, and
      Exercise. The glucose targets are not individually customizable in these
      modes but can change based on the mode selected. During Normal
      mode, Control-IQ+ technology aims to control glucose within a target
      range of 112.5 – 160 mg/dL, during Sleep mode the target range is 112.5 – 120
      mg/dL, and during Exercise mode the target range is 140 – 160 mg/dL.
      Control-IQ+ technology includes an integrated feature whereby iCGM
      values are automatically populated into the glucose field of the integrated
      bolus calculator when Control-IQ+ technology is active (i.e., the device is
       operating in closed-loop mode). This feature is disabled when Control-IQ is
       turned off.
       Control-IQ+ technology requires users to input their weight and their total
       daily insulin requirement, which should be established with the help of a
       health care provider before using the device.
 II.   Intended Use/ Indications for Use
       Control-IQ+ technology is intended for use with compatible integrated
       continuous glucose monitors (iCGM) and alternate controller enabled
       (ACE) pumps to automatically increase, decrease, and suspend delivery of
       basal insulin based on iCGM readings and predicted glucose values. It can
       also deliver correction boluses when the glucose value is predicted to
       exceed a predefined threshold.
       Control-IQ+ technology is intended for the management of Type 1
       diabetes mellitus in persons 2 years of age and greater and of Type 2
       diabetes mellitus in persons 18 years of age and greater.
       Control-IQ+ technology is intended for single patient use and requires a
       prescription.


III.   Technological Characteristics Compared to Predicate Device K243823
                                Predicate Device                          Subject Device
                                     K243823
   Indications for   Control-IQ technology is intended for    Identical
   Use/ Intended     use with compatible integrated
   Use               continuous glucose monitors (iCGM)
                     and alternate controller enabled (ACE)
                     pumps to automatically increase,
                     decrease, and suspend delivery of
                     basal insulin based on iCGM readings
                     and predicted glucose values. It can
                     also deliver correction boluses when
                     the glucose value is predicted to
                     exceed a predefined threshold.

                     Control-IQ technology is intended for
                     the management of Type 1 diabetes
                     mellitus in persons 2 years of age and
                     greater Type 2 diabetes mellitus in
                     persons 18 years of age and greater.

                     Control-IQ technology is intended for
                     single patient use and requires a
                     prescription.
                              Predicate Device                            Subject Device
                                  K243823
Pump Type          Alternate controller enabled insulin       Identical
                   pump
Classification     21 CFR 862.1356                            Identical
Product Code       QJI                                        Identical
Compatible         Type 1 diabetes mellitus in persons 2      Type 1 diabetes mellitus in persons
Insulins           years of age and greater Type 2            2 years of age and greater Type 2
                   diabetes mellitus in persons 18 years      diabetes mellitus in persons 18
                   of age and greater:                        years of age and greater:
                   NovoLog U-100 Insulin                      NovoLog U-100 Insulin
                   Humalog U-100 Insulin                      Humalog U-100 Insulin
                                                              Lyumjev U-100 Insulin
Profile Delivery   When the predicted CGM value is            Identical
                   within the target range, the pump will
                   deliver insulin at the rate determined
                   by the active Personal Profile settings.
                   The user’s profile basal rate may be
                   set as high as 15 units/hr when
                   Control-IQ is off and when Control-IQ
                   is enabled same basal rate is applied.
Basal Rate         The Personal Profile correction factor     Identical
Range              is used to determine the predicted
                   basal rate limits of 10 to 600 mg/dL per
                   unit insulin.
Basal              When Control-IQ technology predicts        Identical
Attenuation        that the sensor glucose value will be
                   at or below the target range 30
                   minutes in the future, the rate of
                   insulin delivered will begin to
                   decrease to attempt to keep glucose
                   within the target range.
Automatic          The upper limit for the automatic          Identical
Correction         correction bolus is 600 mg/dL per unit
Bolus              insulin.
Body Weight        20 lbs (9 kg) – 440 lbs (200 kg)           Identical
Setting Range
Total Daily        User setting of 5 units/day - 200          Identical
Insulin Setting    units/day
Range
Extended Bolus     Up to 8-hour duration while Control-       Identical
                   IQ is enabled or disabled and
                   extended boluses are uninterrupted
                   when enabling Control-IQ.
Temporary          Temp Rates can be enabled without          Identical
Basal Rate         turning Control-IQ technology off
IV.   Overview of Non-Clinical and Clinical Performance Tests
      Appropriate testing was performed to confirm the Subject Device
      met specified requirements and performed as intended. See
      summaries below.
      Usability/Human Factors:
      No new Usability/Human Factors testing was performed to support
      this 510(k) Notification.
      Software Verification and Validation:
      No new software testing was performed to support this 510(k)
      Notification.
      Special Controls:
      Evaluation and adherence to the Special Controls of the Predicate
      Device (K243823) demonstrates continued assurance of the safety
      and effectiveness of the Subject Device.
      Clinical Testing:
      A pivotal study, “Safety Evaluation of an Advanced Hybrid Closed
      Loop System Using Lyumjev with the Tandem t:slim X2 with Control-
      IQ in Adults, Adolescents and Children with Type 1 Diabetes (TL1)”,
      was conducted to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of using
      Lyumjev with Control-IQ+ technology. Tandem performed a single-
      arm prospective safety trial that included 179 participants with type 1
      diabetes (70 in adult cohort, ranging in age from 18-75 years old, and
      109 in pediatric cohort, ranging in age from 6-17 years old) who were
      experienced users of the Control-IQ AID system.
      The protocol consisted of two periods: ~16-day Humalog Lead-in
      Period and 13-week Lyumjev Treatment Period. The primary trial
      endpoints were related to safety, comparing the frequency of severe
      hypoglycemia and DKA events to the reported frequencies from the
      T1D Exchange clinic registry.
      Conclusion:
      The Subject Device has the same intended use and indications as
      the Predicate Device. The clinical study demonstrated that the use of
      Lyumjev with t:slim X2 insulin pump with Control-IQ technology was
      well tolerated with few adverse effects and no increase in
      hypoglycemia. Rates of severe hypoglycemia and DKA were lower
     than in the T1D Exchange clinic registry data, with the statistical
     comparison meeting the prespecified success criteria. Therefore, the
     trial data demonstrates that Lyumjev with the t:slim X2 insulin pump
     with Control-IQ technology is safe and effective in patients with Type
     1 diabetes 6 years of age and greater. The required technical
     documentation provided in this 510(k) demonstrates the Subject
     Device is as safe and as effective as the Predicate Device. Therefore,
     the Subject Device has been evaluated to be substantially equivalent
     to the Predicate Device and does not raise new or different
     questions of safety or effectiveness.


V.   Predetermined Change Control Plan

     This submission included a predetermined change control plan
     (PCCP) that was reviewed and authorized by FDA for
     implementation of the proposed labeling modifications upon
     clearance of a compatible ACE pump. The change to Control-IQ+
     Technology labeling will not be implemented prior to clearance of a
     compatible ACE pump submission. The PCCP outlines that the
     labeling modifications will match the cleared compatible insulins for
     both the ACE Pump and the iAGC.

     The PCCP also defines the test methods and validation
     requirements to implement labeling changes per Tandem's Quality
     Management System. Following implementation new users will
     receive the physical Quick Start Guide upon receipt of their
     corresponding device and the new User Guide and Quick Start
     Guide will be available electronically or may be provided physically
     upon request. Existing users will be notified one of two ways. They
     will have the option to electronically download or request a printed
     version of the Quick Start Guide and User Guide, which will contain
     these labeling updates. Or be notified via email that an additional
     insulin has been approved for use with their device, and this
     communication will also include a link to download the Quick Start
     Guide and User Guide that contain the updated labeling.
