                                                                                           September 24, 2025

Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc.
Miriam Chan
Principal Regulatory Affairs Specialist
12400 High Bluff Drive
San Diego, California 92130


Re: K250792
    Trade/Device Name: t:slim X2 insulin pump with interoperable technology
    Regulation Number: 21 CFR 880.5730
    Regulation Name: Alternate Controller Enabled Infusion Pump
    Regulatory Class: Class II
    Product Code: QFG
    Dated: March 14, 2025
    Received: August 26, 2025

Dear Miriam Chan:

We have reviewed your section 510(k) premarket notification of intent to market the device referenced above
and have determined the device is substantially equivalent (for the indications for use stated in the enclosure)
to legally marketed predicate devices marketed in interstate commerce prior to May 28, 1976, the enactment
date of the Medical Device Amendments, or to devices that have been reclassified in accordance with the
provisions of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the Act) that do not require approval of a premarket
approval application (PMA). You may, therefore, market the device, subject to the general controls
provisions of the Act. Although this letter refers to your product as a device, please be aware that some
cleared products may instead be combination products. The 510(k) Premarket Notification Database
available at https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfpmn/pmn.cfm identifies combination
product submissions. The general controls provisions of the Act include requirements for annual registration,
listing of devices, good manufacturing practice, labeling, and prohibitions against misbranding and
adulteration. Please note: CDRH does not evaluate information related to contract liability warranties. We
remind you, however, that device labeling must be truthful and not misleading.

If your device is classified (see above) into either class II (Special Controls) or class III (PMA), it may be
subject to additional controls. Existing major regulations affecting your device can be found in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 21, Parts 800 to 898. In addition, FDA may publish further announcements
concerning your device in the Federal Register.




U.S. Food & Drug Administration
10903 New Hampshire Avenue                                                          Doc ID# 04017.08.00
Silver Spring, MD 20993
www.fda.gov
K250792 - Miriam Chan                                                                                 Page   2

Additional information about changes that may require a new premarket notification are provided in the FDA
guidance documents entitled "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an Existing Device"
(https://www.fda.gov/media/99812/download) and "Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Software
Change to an Existing Device" (https://www.fda.gov/media/99785/download).

Your device is also subject to, among other requirements, the Quality System (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part
820), which includes, but is not limited to, 21 CFR 820.30, Design controls; 21 CFR 820.90, Nonconforming
product; and 21 CFR 820.100, Corrective and preventive action. Please note that regardless of whether a
change requires premarket review, the QS regulation requires device manufacturers to review and approve
changes to device design and production (21 CFR 820.30 and 21 CFR 820.70) and document changes and
approvals in the device master record (21 CFR 820.181).

Please be advised that FDA's issuance of a substantial equivalence determination does not mean that FDA
has made a determination that your device complies with other requirements of the Act or any Federal
statutes and regulations administered by other Federal agencies. You must comply with all the Act's
requirements, including, but not limited to: registration and listing (21 CFR Part 807); labeling (21 CFR Part
801 and Part 809); medical device reporting (reporting of medical device-related adverse events) (21 CFR
Part 803) for devices or postmarketing safety reporting (21 CFR Part 4, Subpart B) for combination products
(see https://www.fda.gov/combination-products/guidance-regulatory-information/postmarketing-safety-
reporting-combination-products); good manufacturing practice requirements as set forth in the quality
systems (QS) regulation (21 CFR Part 820) for devices or current good manufacturing practices (21 CFR
Part 4, Subpart A) for combination products; and, if applicable, the electronic product radiation control
provisions (Sections 531-542 of the Act); 21 CFR Parts 1000-1050.

All medical devices, including Class I and unclassified devices and combination product device constituent
parts are required to be in compliance with the final Unique Device Identification System rule ("UDI Rule").
The UDI Rule requires, among other things, that a device bear a unique device identifier (UDI) on its label
and package (21 CFR 801.20(a)) unless an exception or alternative applies (21 CFR 801.20(b)) and that the
dates on the device label be formatted in accordance with 21 CFR 801.18. The UDI Rule (21 CFR
830.300(a) and 830.320(b)) also requires that certain information be submitted to the Global Unique Device
Identification Database (GUDID) (21 CFR Part 830 Subpart E). For additional information on these
requirements, please see the UDI System webpage at https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-
comprehensive-regulatory-assistance/unique-device-identification-system-udi-system.

Also, please note the regulation entitled, "Misbranding by reference to premarket notification" (21 CFR
807.97). For questions regarding the reporting of adverse events under the MDR regulation (21 CFR Part
803), please go to https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/medical-device-safety/medical-device-reporting-
mdr-how-report-medical-device-problems.

For comprehensive regulatory information about medical devices and radiation-emitting products, including
information about labeling regulations, please see Device Advice (https://www.fda.gov/medical-
devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-assistance) and CDRH Learn
(https://www.fda.gov/training-and-continuing-education/cdrh-learn). Additionally, you may contact the
Division of Industry and Consumer Education (DICE) to ask a question about a specific regulatory topic. See
the DICE website (https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/device-advice-comprehensive-regulatory-
K250792 - Miriam Chan                                                                            Page   3

assistance/contact-us-division-industry-and-consumer-education-dice) for more information or contact DICE
by email (DICE@fda.hhs.gov) or phone (1-800-638-2041 or 301-796-7100).

                                              Sincerely,


                                              JOSHUA BALSAM -S
                                              Joshua M. Balsam, Ph.D.
                                              Branch Chief
                                              Division of Chemistry and
                                                Toxicology Devices
                                              OHT7: Office of In Vitro Diagnostics
                                              Office of Product Evaluation and Quality
                                              Center for Devices and Radiological Health

Enclosure
                   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                 Form Approved: OMB No. 0910-0120
                           Food and Drug Administration                                    Expiration Date: 07/31/2026
                                 Indications for Use                                       See PRA Statement below.

Submission Number (ifknown)

 K250792
                                                                                                                              I
Device Name
 t:slim X2 insulin pump with interoperable technology

Indications for Use (Describe)
 The t:slim X2 Insulin Pump with Interoperable Technology (the Pump) is intended for the
 subcutaneous delivery of insulin, at set and variable rates, for the management of diabetes mellitus
 in persons requiring insulin. The Pump is able to reliably and securely communicate with compatible,
 digitally connected devices, including automated insulin dosing software, to receive, execute, and
 confirm commands from these devices.

 The Pump is intended for single patient, home use and requires a prescription.

 The Pump is indicated for use in individuals 2 years of age and greater.
Type of Use (Select one or both, as applicable)
             ZPrescription Use (Part 21 CFR 801 Subpart D)             ]Over-The-Counter Use (21 CFR 801 Subpart C)
                                       CONTINUE ON A SEPARATE PAGE IF NEEDED.

                        This section applies only to requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995.
                *DO NOT SEND YOUR COMPLETED FORM TO THE PRA STAFF EMAIL ADDRESS BELOW.*
          The burden time for this collection of information is estimated to average 79 hours per response, including the
          time to review instructions, search existing data sources, gather and maintain the data needed and complete
          and review the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect
          of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to:
                                                 Department of Health and Human Services
                                                 Food and Drug Administration
                                                 Office of Chief Information Officer
                                                 Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) Staff
                                                 PRAStaff@fda.hhs.gov
                "An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
                                information unless it displays a currently valid OMB number."
                         510(k) Summary
     Company                Tandem Diabetes Care, Inc
                            12400 High Bluff Drive
                            San Diego, CA 92130
     Prepared               March 07, 2025
     Contact                Miriam Chan
                            Principal Regulatory Affairs Specialist
                            mchan@tandemdiabetes.com
                            +1(858)202-6553
     Trade Name             t:slim X2 insulin pump with interoperable
                            technology
     Common Name            Alternate controller enabled infusion pump
     Classification Product QFG
     Code
     Classification Name    Alternate controller enabled infusion pump
     Regulation Number      21 CFR 880.5730
     Device Class           Class II
     Predicate Device       K232380, t:slim X2 insulin pump with
                            interoperable technology

I.     Device Under Review
       The Subject Device, t:slim X2 insulin pump with interoperable technology
      (“t:slim X2 insulin pump”, “the pump”) is an is an ambulatory, battery
      operated, rate-programmable infusion pump designed for the
      subcutaneous delivery of insulin, at set and variable rates, for the
      management of diabetes mellitus in persons requiring insulin. The front of
      the pump includes a color touch screen display that has a capacitive touch
      panel that detects a finger touch. The Screen On Button on the side of the
      insulin pump is surrounded by an LED indicator light. This button is used to
      turn on the touch screen display so that the user can operate their System.
      The Screen On Button also provides users with a quick bolus option, which
      is a feature that allows a user to program and deliver a bolus of insulin
      through a sequence of presses, without using the touch screen. The System
      provides audio and vibratory feedback to the user to confirm the delivery.
      In the case of an incomplete sequence, the bolus is canceled.
      The t:slim X2 insulin pump with interoperable technology system also
      includes: the Tandem t:slim mobile application and a 3mL (300 insulin unit)
      t:slim X2 cartridge and a compatible FDA cleared infusion set. The Tandem
       t:slim mobile application (“mobile app”) enables a user to connect a
       smartphone to the pump using Bluetooth® wireless technology to display
       pump information and perform some pump functions on the smartphone
       as well as display pump notifications. The Tandem t:slim mobile
       application will also be used to transmit historical pump and mobile app
       therapy data to the Tandem Cloud. The Tandem t:slim mobile application
       will be made available via the Apple® App Store for iOS compatible
       smartphones and the Android Play Store for Android compatible
       smartphones based on completed device verification and validation. The
       t:slim X2 cartridge is a disposable insulin cartridge compatible only with the
       t:slim X2 pump.
       The t:slim X2 pump can be used for basal and bolus insulin delivery with or
       without a CGM or with any compatible interoperable automated dosing
       algorithm.
       The pump may be used in combination with a compatible continuous
       glucose monitor (CGM) system. Use of CGM is optional.
II.     Intended Use/ Indications for Use
        The t:slim X2 insulin pump with interoperable technology (the pump) is
        intended for the subcutaneous delivery of insulin, at set and variable rates,
        for the management of diabetes mellitus in persons requiring insulin. The
        pump is able to reliably and securely communicate with compatible,
        digitally connected devices, including automated insulin dosing software,
        to receive, execute, and confirm commands from these devices.

        The pump is intended for single patient, home use and requires a
        prescription.

        The pump is indicated for use in individuals 2 years of age and greater.

        Technological Characteristics Compared to Predicate Device K232380
                             Predicate Device (K232380)                     Subject Device

      Intended             The t:slim X2 insulin pump with      Identical
      Use/Indication for   interoperable technology (the
      Use                  Pump) is intended for the
                           subcutaneous delivery of insulin,
                           at set and variable rates, for the
                           management of diabetes
                           mellitus in persons requiring
                           insulin. The Pump is able to
                           reliably and securely
                           communicate with compatible,
                           digitally connected devices,
                   including automated insulin
                   dosing software, to receive,
                   execute, and confirm commands
                   from these devices.

                   The Pump is intended for single
                   patient, home use and requires a
                   prescription.

                   The Pump is indicated for use in
                   individuals 2 years of age and
                   greater.
Prescription Use   Yes                                  Identical
Classification     21 CFR 880.5730                      Identical
Product Code       QFG                                  Identical
Technological      The t:slim X2 insulin pump with      Identical
Characteristics    interoperable technology is an
                   ambulatory, battery operated,
                   rate-programmable infusion
                   pump designed for the
                   subcutaneous delivery of insulin,
                   at set and variable rates, for the
                   management of diabetes
                   mellitus in persons requiring
                   insulin. The device includes a
                   disposable cartridge which is
                   motor driven to deliver patient
                   programmed basal rates and
                   boluses through an infusion set
                   into subcutaneous tissue.
Principles of      Delivery of insulin (Bolus and       Identical
Operation          Basal) programmed by the user
                   based on health care provider
                   recommendations.
Compatible         Type 1 diabetes mellitus in          Type 1 diabetes mellitus in
Insulins           persons 2 years of age and           persons 2 years of age and
                   greater Type 2 diabetes mellitus     greater Type 2 diabetes mellitus
                   in persons 18 years of age and       in persons 18 years of age and
                   greater:                             greater:
                   NovoLog U-100 Insulin                NovoLog U-100 Insulin
                   Humalog U-100 Insulin                Humalog U-100 Insulin
                                                        Lyumjev U-100 Insulin
System General        +Infusion Pump                    Identical
Components            +Mobile Application
                      +Single-use, Sterile
                       Disposable Insulin
                       Cartridge
Cartridge          Gamma Sterilization                  Identical
Sterilization
Method
Pump Type         ACE pump, t:slim X2 insulin     Identical
                  pump with interoperable
                  technology
Accessories          + Compatible Infusion Sets   Identical
                     + Power Supply
                     + Belt Clip



  IV.   Overview of Non-Clinical and Clinical Performance Tests
        Insulin compatibility and leachable testing was performed to
        support this 510(k) Notification. The outcome of the insulin
        compatibility and leachable testing demonstrates that the Subject
        Device is as safe and as effective as the Predicate Device.
        Usability/Human Factors:
        No new Usability/Human Factors testing was performed to support
        this 510(k) Notification.
        Software Verification and Validation:
        No new software testing was performed to support this 510(k)
        Notification.
        Special Controls:
        Evaluation and adherence to the Special Controls of the Predicate
        Device (K232380) demonstrates continued assurance of the safety
        and effectiveness of the Subject Device.
        Conclusion:
        The Subject Device has the same intended use and indications as
        the Predicate Device. Furthermore, the testing demonstrated that
        Lyumjev is a compatible insulin with t:slim X2 insulin pump with
        interoperable technology. The required technical documentation
        provided in this 510(k) demonstrates the Subject Device is as safe
        and as effective as the Predicate Device. Therefore, the Subject
        Device has been evaluated to be substantially equivalent to the
        Predicate Device and does not raise new or different questions of
        safety or effectiveness.
