 
 Healthcare Professional Lyumjev (insulin lispro) Eli Lilly and Company 
 Skip To Main Content
 Lilly 
 Menu
 Menu
 Menu closed
 Lilly 
 Close
 Close
 Medical Home
 Medical Information
 chat
 Contact Us
 Close Contact Us
 Chat
 Click to chat
 Question
 Submit a question
Information Request 
Lilly Rep Request 
 Expand contact lilly
 Lilly 
 You are now leaving the LillyMedical website
The link you clicked on will take you to a site maintained by a third party, which is solely responsible for its content. Eli Lilly and Company does not control, influence, or endorse this site, and the opinions, claims or comments expressed on this site should not be attributed to Eli Lilly and Company. Eli Lilly and Company is not responsible for the privacy policy of any third party websites. We encourage you to read the privacy policy of every website you visit. 
 Cancel
 Agreed
 Home Medical 
 Right
 Medical Information 
 Right
 Lyumjev ® (insulin lispro) 
 Search insulin lispro information
 Search Medical Information 
 Search
 Tips for searching: 
• You have to select a product and type at least 2 words to activate the search
• Use only words that are specific to the information you are looking for
• Avoid typing questions or sentences
Please do not use this field to report adverse events or product complaints. Adverse events and product complaints should be reported. Reporting forms and information can be found at www.mhra.gov.uk/yellowcard or search for MHRA Yellow card in the Google play or Apple app store. Adverse events and product complaints should also be reported to Lilly: please call Lilly UK on 01256 315 000. 
Can't find what you're looking for? Contact us for answers to your medical questions. 
 Copyright
 Terms of Use
 Privacy Statement
 Accessibility Information
 Cookie settings
 Select a country
 United Kingdom
 Down
MI-LM-UK-1022 Sep-2026 | ® Registered Trademark of Eli Lilly and Company | © Eli Lilly and Company 2026. 
This site is published by Eli Lilly and Company Ltd and is intended for Healthcare Professionals in the United Kingdom 
 Lilly 
