Guidance to companies on medicines
outwith SMC remit
Some medicines are considered outwith SMC remit and a submission is not required. Before making
a submission to SMC, the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) should consider whether any of the
following exclusion criteria apply. If the product clearly satisfies one or more of the exclusion criteria,
a submission is not required and no further action is needed. If you are unsure whether a product
falls within these exclusion criteria, please contact the SMC Secretariat for advice.



 1.    The medicine was initially licensed and made available to the market prior to 31 January
       2002, for the indication in question, i.e. prior to the inception of SMC.
       A submission may be required for additional formulations licensed after 31 January 2002.
       In making a judgement, please refer to note 12, in relation to available equivalent products.
       Where no equivalent licensed product is available a submission will normally be required.

 2.    The medicine is not a Prescription Only Medicine (PoM).
       The SMC remit covers proprietary medicines categorised as PoMs only and excludes
       Pharmacy and General Sales List medicines.

 3.    The medicine is used in immunisation and guidance on its use is issued by the Joint
       Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation.

 4.    The product is a medical device and is not licensed as a medicine by MHRA/EMA.

 5.    The product is used in diagnosis not treatment.
       SMC does not consider medicines licensed for use only in a diagnostic setting.

 6.    The product is classified as a blood product. However SMC reserves the right to request
       a submission for a new blood derived product if an assessment of clinical and cost
       effectiveness is required by NHS Boards. Please consult the SMC secretariat for further
       advice.

 7.    The product is a medical gas.
8.    The product is a parenteral preparation for fluid and electrolyte imbalance or parenteral
      nutrition.

9.    The product is used as a supportive intervention in surgical procedures/wound
      management. Please consult the SMC secretariat for further advice.

10.   The product is used for the acute treatment of poisoning.

11.   The product is a medicine used in tropical diseases.

12.   There has been a change to the MAH, trade name or manufacturer, with no change to
      the licensed indication, formulation, pharmacokinetics /pharmacodynamics, posology
      and no increase in product cost.

13.   The Marketing Authorisation is solely for a new presentation or strength of an existing
      proprietary medicine, with no associated change to the licensed indication and the new
      product costs the same or less.
      This includes new devices for the administration/delivery of established medicines.

14.   The product is an oral formulation of an established medicine, available as a generic,
      intended for patients unable to swallow tablets or capsules.

15.   The product is a generic or branded generic medicine authorised under Article 10 (1) of
      Directive 2001/83/EC.



16.   The product is a biosimilar medicine and the reference product has been accepted by
      SMC/HIS for the same indication(s) and in the same population or was initially licensed
      and available prior to 31 January 2002.
      SMC statement regarding biosimilar medicines

17.   In certain circumstances, where there are no patients in Scotland who are eligible for
      treatment a submission may not be required.
      Please consult the SMC Secretariat before assuming that this criterion is satisfied.

18.   For some products where there is a large number of branded medicines with the same
      active substance(s) and similar costs SMC may occasionally advise Area Drug and
      Therapeutics Committees (ADTCs) that these are outwith remit. ADTCs should make local
      decisions on these products as required. These products are testosterone products for
      testosterone replacement therapy in male hypogonadism (from June 2019),
      ursodeoxycholic acid products (from February 2016), colecalciferol products for vitamin
      D deficiency (from February 2015), some combined oral contraceptives (from April 2012),
      and some preparations of mesalazine (from January 2011).
      Please consult the SMC secretariat for further advice on medicines in these categories.


Updated:       June 2019
Review date: June 2020
