Part D Senior Savings Model
(Insulin Savings)
Common Questions & Answers
Q: What is the Part D Senior Savings Model?
A: The Part D Senior Savings Model allows participating Part D plans to offer a broad set of formulary
insulins at a maximum $35.00 copayment per month’s supply, throughout the deductible, initial
coverage, and coverage gap phases of their Part D drug coverage. This means that starting in January
2021, participating Part D plans will offer enrollees predictable, stable copayments for insulin, helping
enrollees save money on their drug costs.
Q: What kinds of plans can participate in the Part D Senior Savings Model?
A: Most Medicare Part D plans that people choose from during Open Enrollment can participate in the
Model. This includes standalone Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plans (PDPs) as well as Medicare
Advantage Prescription Drug plans (MA-PDs) that offer enhanced alternative Part D coverage. Plans that
are participating can be found by checking the box for the “Insulin Savings” filter in Medicare Plan Finder
at Medicare.gov.
Private fee-for-service plans, employer/union only direct contract plans (local coordinated care plans,
prescription drug plans, private fee-for-service plans), section 1876 cost contract plans, dual-eligible
special needs plans (D-SNPs), section 1833 health care prepayment plans, PACE organizations, MedicareMedicaid plans, and religious fraternal benefit plans (local coordinated care plans and private fee-forservice plans) aren’t eligible to participate in the Model.
Q: What plans are part of the Model? How do I find one?
A: The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (also known as CMS, the federal agency that approves
Medicare plans) announced Medicare Advantage plans with prescription drug coverage (MA-PD) and
Part D Prescription Drug Plans (PDPs) that are participating in the Model in September 2020. You will be
able to use Medicare Plan Finder at Medicare.gov to find a plan that is participating by checking the box
for the “Insulin Savings” filter when you search for plans. You can also call 1-800-MEDICARE to ask
questions about enrollment, eligibility, and the Model .
Q: When is the Part D Senior Saving Model expected to end? How many years is the model?
A: Since the Part D Senior Savings Model is a Model being tested by CMS to lower costs and improve
health care quality, it currently has a set time period for when it is available. Part D plans participating in
the Model are available starting on January 1st, 2021. The Model currently extends until December 31,
2025, but the plans participating in the Model may change each year.
Q: How will I know if my plan is participating next year (CY2022)?
A: If you join a plan participating in the Part D Senior Savings Model for 2021, your plan will notify you in
the Annual Notice of Change (ANOC) that you will receive in September 2021 if they are no longer

participating. You can then choose a different plan for 2022 during the Medicare Open Enrollment
Period starting in October 2021.
Q: Will the member be offered a plan with a higher premium so they can get their insulin at a lower
($35.00) cost?
A: The Part D Senior Savings Model allows drug manufacturers to offer their discounts in the coverage
gap, even when a Part D plan enhances cost-sharing. This allows plans to offer a fixed, consistent costsharing on insulin. This structure is estimated to save enrollees who take insulin $446 in annual out-ofpocket costs. Part D sponsor plan premiums vary and beneficiaries should find a Part D plan that
provides them the coverage they want at the lowest total annual cost, premiums and out-of-pocket
costs combined.
Q: Will step therapy apply with insulin drugs?
A: Step therapy is when a Part D plan requires enrollees to first try certain drugs to treat a medical
condition before the plan will cover another drug for that condition. The Model doesn’t change Part D
sponsors’ formulary requirements. Enrollees can find out if the insulin or insulins they use have any
additional step therapy requirements or limits by looking at the Part D plan’s formulary.
Q: I have Low-Income cost-sharing Subsidy (LIS), sometimes called Extra Help. Can I get the $35 per
month cost-sharing under the Model?
A: Part D enrollees who receive LIS already have a set Part D copayment, so they aren’t eligible for the
$35 per month’s supply copayment under the Model.
Q: Will Senior Savings Plans have a full formulary?
A: Yes. The Part D Senior Savings Plans are enhanced alternative Part D plans, so they have a full
formulary and cover Part D benefits.
Q: Is there a cap on the number of units monthly to get the $35.00 copay?
A: Generally, the maximum $35.00 copayment under the Model applies to one month’s supply of
insulin. This may be limited by a physician’s prescription or by plan rules on drug dosage to ensure
patient safety. Please note that if an enrollee uses multiple types of insulin or has multiple prescriptions
for select insulins covered under the Model, each prescription would have a copayment of a maximum
$35.00 for a one month’s supply.

