DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH & HUMAN SERVICES
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
7500 Security Boulevard, Mail Stop 00-00-00
Baltimore, Maryland 21244-1850



CENTER FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID INNOVATION



DATE:             March 23, 2020

TO:               All Part D Sponsors and Medicare Advantage Organizations

FROM:             Laura McWright, Deputy Director, Seamless Care Models Group

                  Center for Medicare & Medicaid Innovation

SUBJECT:          Part D Senior Savings Model Calendar Year 2021 Pharmaceutical Manufacturer Model
                  Participation and Part D Sponsor Requirements

On March 11, 2020, CMS announced the Part D Senior Savings Model, a voluntary model that enables
participating Part D enhanced plans to lower Medicare beneficiaries’ out-of-pocket costs for insulin to a
maximum $35 copay per thirty-day supply. Today, CMS is announcing the following for the Part D Senior
Savings Model for CY 2021:

      1. Calendar Year (CY) 2021 Pharmaceutical Manufacturer Participation;
      2. Part D Sponsor Requirements; and
      3. Model Drug National Drug Codes (NDCs).

CY 2021 Pharmaceutical Manufacturer Participation

CMS saw broad pharmaceutical manufacturer participation, with the following pharmaceutical
manufacturers participating in the Part D Senior Savings Model:

      1. Eli Lilly and Company
      2. Novo Nordisk, Inc. and Novo Nordisk Pharma, Inc.
      3. Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC

Part D Sponsor Requirements

Model Drugs: Part D sponsors’ participating plan benefit packages are required to offer a maximum
standard copay of $35 for a 30-days’ supply, for both vial and pen dosage forms, for at least one of each
of the following insulin types in the deductible, initial coverage phase, and coverage gap:

      •   rapid-acting insulin;
      •   short-acting insulin;
      •   intermediate-acting insulin; and
      •   long-acting insulin.

Part D sponsors meet Model requirements if the Part D sponsor’s choice of formulary product line only
has a vial dosage form or a pen dosage form for one of the above required Model drugs. As part of the

                                                                                                   Page 1
application, CMS will require Part D sponsors to provide a supplemental file of all Model drugs included
on plan’s formulary and the associated copay, which can be a maximum of $35 for a 30-days’ supply per
prescription.

Deductible: Part D sponsors are reminded of the requirement that beneficiaries move through the
deductible and initial coverage phases of the Part D benefit based on the total gross drug costs
accumulated, which includes costs for drugs that might not be subject to a deductible. Unless otherwise
noted in Model materials, plans should continue to report prescription drug event data according to
current CMS guidance located in HPMS and on the Customer Support Services Contract (CSSC) website
at https://www.csscoperations.com.

Model Drug NDCs

Please visit the Model website at https://innovation.cms.gov/initiatives/part-d-savings-model for a
complete list of Model Drug NDCs. The above participating manufacturers for CY 2021 included all
marketed products under their respective labeler codes that are applicable covered Part D drugs that
are, or contain, insulin, as classified in the American Hospital Formulary Service (AHFS) Drug Information
or the DRUGDEX Information System compendia.




                                                                                                    Page 2
