CENTER FOR DRUG EVALUATION AND
           RESEARCH

       APPLICATION NUMBER:


        208751Orig1s000

      SUMMARY REVIEW
              2. Background
          Insulin aspart is an analog of human insulin indicated to improve glycemic control in patients
          with diabetes mellitus in which the amino acid proline has been replaced with aspartic acid in
          position B28 to increase the rate of absorption as compared to regular human insulin. As a
          ‘rapid-acting insulin analog’, insulin aspart is typically administered at mealtime to reduce
          postprandial hyperglycemia, i.e. increase in blood glucose related to carbohydrate ingestion. It is
          usually administered in conjunction with a basal insulin product, although in patients with type 2
          diabetes it can be used without basal insulin. Rapid-acting insulin analogs are also used in
          continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion therapy (i.e. insulin pumps) for both basal and bolus
          coverage in type 1 diabetes patients. The currently marketed insulin aspart product is approved in
          the U.S. under the tradename NovoLog, and is one of the several rapid-acting insulin analogs2
          currently marketed in the U.S. NovoLog was approved for treatment of adult patients with
          diabetes mellitus on June 7, 2000.

          The product under review in this NDA (proposed tradename FIASP) is a new formulation of
          insulin aspart that contains 2 additional excipients intended to change the
          pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PD/PD) profile of the drug to make the onset of action
          faster than NovoLog. However, NovoLog and FIASP still have the same active ingredient. In
          FIASP, nicotinamide (also known as niacinamide or vitamin B3) was added to increase the
          absorption of insulin aspart after administration by increasing the proportion of monomers of
          insulin, and L-arginine was added to stabilize the formulation. Insulin products with a faster
          onset of action than those currently available are in theory desirable because the earlier onset of
          action would allow for dosing closer to mealtime or even after the meal with resultant better
          matching to carbohydrate intake. This altered (or ‘left-shifted’) PK profile was the rationale for
          development of FIASP.

          The first cycle NDA for FIASP was issued a Complete Response (CR) on 7 Oct 2016 for
          deficiencies pertaining to Clinical Pharmacology and Immunogenicity. The bioanalytical method
          used to                                   (for the purpose of the primary pharmacokinetic analyses)
                                            (b) (4)


          was deemed unreliable. As a result, the reliability of the pharmacokinetic data for all clinical
          pharmacology studies that used this method was called into question. In addition, the CR letter
          cited multiple deficiencies regarding the validation of the radioimmunoprecipitation assay (RIA)
          for the detection of insulin aspart-specific and cross-reactive anti-human insulin anti-drug
          antibodies. The specific details of both CR issues can be found in the CR letter and Appendix A
          of this summary memo.

          There were also several ‘Additional Comments’ that were not approvability issues including a
          request to provide data to address the safety of longer-term infusion and higher doses of FIASP
          that are likely to occur in the clinical setting3, specifically with regards to the excipients,

          2 Other approved rapid-acting insulin analogs administered parenterally include Humalog (insulin lispro, NDA

          020563) and Apidra (insulin glulisine, NDA 021629). Additionally, Afrezza (human insulin, NDA 022472) is a
          rapid-acting insulin product administered by oral inhalation.

          3 In support of intravenous (IV) administration, you have submitted stability data of FIASP when diluted in two

          types of intravenous infusion fluids (0.9% NaCl and 5% glucose) at concentrations of 0.5 U/mL and 1.0 U/mL




Reference ID: 4159367
              3. CMC / Device
          The recommendation from the Office of Pharmaceutical Quality (OPQ) (including the
          manufacturing inspection recommendation) was approval on the first cycle.

          There is no new CMC/Device information in the resubmission.


              4. Nonclinical Pharmacology/Toxicology
          The Nonclinical Pharmacology/Toxicology reviewer recommended approval of this NDA on the
          first cycle. See her review dated August 29, 2016.

          For the resubmission, the only nonclinical information reviewed related to intravenous use of
          FIASP. The original review noted that with regard to nonclinical data, the single-dose rabbit
          local tolerance study (#212147), which was the only study that included IV dosing, was adequate
          to assess toxicity of accidental exposure or very short-term exposure, but was not adequate, in
          and of itself, to support long term repeated IV exposure. The nonclinical reviewers determined
          that longer-term IV use of FIASP is supported by several considerations including the
          mechanism of action for absorption enhancement properties of nicotinamide [the effect of
          nicotinamide on insulin is related to enhancement of insulin monomer formation, rather than an
          effect secondary to increased local blood flow (e.g., vasodilation) proximal to the SC injection
          site] and additional information provided by the sponsor showing that the excipients are
          contained in several FDA-approved parenteral multi-vitamin drugs as a co-API (active
          pharmaceutical ingredient).


              5. Clinical Pharmacology/Biopharmaceutics
          The Clinical Pharmacology reviewer Dr. Shalini Wickramaratne Senarath Yapa (from the Office
          of Clinical Pharmacology [OCP]) recommends Approval after reviewing the new Clinical
          Pharmacology information in the resubmission.

          The data package in the resubmission was agreed upon at the End of Review meeting (discussed
          above) and was intended to address the Clinical Pharmacology deficiencies listed in the CR
          letter. Specifically, the bioanalytical method used                                     (for the
                                                                                          (b) (4)


          purpose of primary pharmacokinetic analyses) was deemed unreliable. Refer to Appendix A of
          this memo for the entire description of the Clinical Pharmacology deficiencies. The sponsor’s
          approach to address the deficiencies was to base their submission on a total insulin aspart
          bioanalytical method                                                                              . (Of
                                                                                                    (b) (4)


          note, the sponsor had measured total insulin aspart concentrations in some studies but reported
          these as exploratory endpoints.) As such the data package in the resubmission consists of 1)
          retrospective reanalysis of total aspart concentrations from previous studies, 2) reanalysis of
          samples from one study using a total insulin aspart bioanalytical method and 3) a new meal
          challenge study (3922) assessing total insulin aspart concentrations.




Reference ID: 4159367
          The bioanalytical method for total insulin aspart was concluded to be appropriately validated by
          the Clinical Pharmacology reviewers. Refer to 3.2.8 Summary of Bioanalytical Method
          Validation in the Clinical Pharmacology review for details.

          Clinical Pharmacology Studies Relevant to the Submission
          3887                                            Euglycemic clamp –T1DM
          3889                                            Standardized meal test – T1DM
          3891*                                           Euglycemic clamp –T1DM
          3918                                            PK/PD in Japanese subjects – T1DM
          3921                                            PK/PD of postmeal FIASP vs. premeal
                                                          Novolog – T1DM
          3922                                            Meal challenge study
          3978*                                           Euglycemic clamp –T1DM
          3949                                            PK in healthy volunteers
          Bolded: New study conducted after the first review cycle and included in resubmission
          *Samples from these studies were used in PK reanalysis

          Key Clinical Pharmacological Characteristics of FIASP

          Below is a summary of the major PK/PD parameters for FIASP. Similar to the Clinical
          Pharmacology review, reference to ‘aspart concentrations’ in the following subsections refers to
          total aspart concentration unless otherwise specified.

          Pharmacokinetics

          Single dose PK
          Absorption
           Following SC administration of 0.2 unit/kg single dose of FIASP in patients with T1DM, the
          mean onset of appearance was ~2.5 minutes post-dose and mean time to maximum insulin aspart
          concentration was achieved ~63 minutes post-dose
           Following SC administration of single doses ranging from 0.06 to 0.28 unit/kg in patients with
          T1DM, a proportional increase in total insulin aspart exposure and maximum concentrations of
          insulin aspart was observed with an increase in FIASP dose
           The absolute SC bioavailability of insulin aspart in healthy subjects following administration
          of a 0.2 unit/kg FIASP dose in the abdomen, deltoid, and thigh was 85%, 76%, and 75%,
          respectively
          Distribution
           Following IV administration of 0.02 unit/kg FIASP in healthy subjects, the geometric mean
          volume of distribution for insulin aspart was 0.15 L/kg
           Insulin aspart has a low binding affinity to plasma proteins (<10%), similar to that seen with
          regular human insulin
          Elimination
           Following SC administration of 0.2 unit/kg single dose of FIASP in patients with T1DM, the
          geometric mean terminal half-life for FIASP was 68.1 minutes (median: 65.5 minutes)




Reference ID: 4159367
           Following IV administration of 0.02 unit/kg FIASP in healthy subjects, the geometric mean
          clearance and elimination half-life was 0.90 (L/hr)/kg, and 7.2 minutes, respectively




          Special populations
          In patients with T1DM, the total exposure and maximum concentrations of insulin aspart
          following administration of FIASP was comparable between different age groups (younger adult
          and geriatric patients) and between genders (male and females). The total exposure of insulin
          aspart was comparable between different body mass index (BMI) categories, however maximum
          concentrations of insulin aspart increased with decreasing BMI category. Renal impairment and
          race/ethnicity overall showed no clinically meaningful impact on the PK of FIASP. A trend for
          an increase in total insulin aspart exposure with an increase in the level of total anti-insulin aspart



Reference ID: 4159367
          antibodies was observed following administration of FIASP. However, this did not translate into
          any differences in PD (see below).

          Pharmacodynamics

          Euglycemic clamp studies
          Glucose lowering effect
           In 3 euglycemic clamp studies, following SC administration of 0.2 unit/kg single dose of
          FIASP in patients with T1DM, the geometric mean onset of action was 11 to 17 minutes (range)
          and time to maximum glucose lowering effect was 109 to 119 minutes (range). The geometric
          mean duration of action was 342 to 476 minutes (range) for FIASP
           The total glucose lowering effect and maximum glucose lowering effect increased in slightly
          less than linear manner within increasing dose of FIASP (0.1, 0.2, 0.4 unit/kg)
           Following SC administration of 0.2 unit/kg FIASP, the within-subject variability for total
          glucose lowering effect and maximum glucose lowering effect was 18.3% and 19.3%,
          respectively
           There was no correlation between anti-insulin antibodies and glucose lowering effect in a
          pooled analysis of studies 3987, 3887, and 3891




Reference ID: 4159367
          Pharmacology reviewers concur with the Sponsor that in all studies, a slight left shift in the PK
          profile of FIASP compared to NovoLog was observed.

          Mean insulin aspart serum concentration-time profile for FIASP and NovoLog stratified
          by study (A) 0-6 hrs and (B) 0-2 hrs6




          A faster mean onset of appearance was observed for FIASP when compared to NovoLog, with
          the mean onset of appearance for FIASP (2.53 min) appearing to be twice as fast compared to
          NovoLog (5.24 min) in Study 3978 (estimated mean treatment difference of -2.71 min [-3.26; -
          2.16]7). The mean time to 50% Cmax and mean time to tmax was earlier for FIASP compared to
          NovoLog in the 3 studies. In Study 3978, the mean treatment difference for mean time to 50%
          Cmax and time to tmax for FIASP when compared to NovoLog was statistically significant (-
          9.41 min [- 11.54; -7.29] and -10.42 min [-18.52; -2.31], respectively). In all studies, the largest
          difference in insulin aspart exposure for FIASP compared to NovoLog was observed in the initial
          15 mins post-dose, with the estimated mean treatment ratio ranging from 1.93 to 3.55. ‘Late
          insulin aspart exposure’ data also supported the left shifted concentration-time profile of FIASP.
          For example, in Study 3922, the mean estimated time to late 50% Cmax was shorter (22.9 min)
          for FIASP when compared to NovoLog; (see Clinical Pharmacology review for details).
          6 In Studies 3978 and 3891 a 0.2 unit/kg dose was administered; in Study 3922 the administered actual dose ranged
          from 0.06-0.28 unit/kg (for this study, serum concentrations are adjusted to a dose of 0.2 unit/kg). NovoRapid is the
          EU-approved insulin aspart product representing NovoLog in these studies.

          7 95% Confidence Interval in this section unless otherwise specified




Reference ID: 4159367
          on a margin of 0.4%) but numerically worse HbA1c lowering from FIASP administered 20
          minutes after the start of a meal vs. NovoLog at the start of the meal.

          The Clinical Pharmacology reviewer states that “the post-meal PD data does point to some extent
          that differences in PK/PD profile of FIASP from NovoLog are close but not optimal for post-
          meal use as the time of administration, as it comes at a cost of lesser control on PPG excursion
          for post-meal FIASP when compared to pre-meal NovoLog and even pre-meal FIASP.” It is
          unknown how FIASP given, for example, 10 minutes after the meal vs. NovoLog at the start of
          the meal would have compared. In other words, the study did not identify the ‘ideal’ time for
          administration of FIASP with respect to meals, but rather identified a window of timing with
          respect to meals that was predictive of clinically safe and effective glucose lowering to proceed
          with into Phase 3.


              6. Clinical Microbiology
          See Section 3: CMC


              7. Clinical/Statistical- Efficacy
          Efficacy was established during the first review cycle and there were no new efficacy studies in
          the resubmission. Drs. Kwon (Clinical) and Cambon (Biostatistics) reviewed the original studies
          in detail; please see their reviews and please refer to my original CDTL memo for a summary of
          efficacy. Efficacy is also discussed in the benefit risk assessment of this memo.


              8. Safety
          Safety data in the FIASP NDA were reviewed during the first cycle and no deficiencies
          specifically related to observed safety concerns were identified. Refer to Dr. Kwon’s original
          Clinical Safety review and my CDTL memo for details. Further, there are no new safety
          findings in the resubmission that change the benefit risk assessment of FIASP. See Dr. Kwon’s
          second cycle Clinical Safety review.

          However, as noted above there were multiple deficiencies regarding the validation of the
          radioimmunoprecipitation assay (RIA) for the detection of insulin aspart-specific and cross-
          reactive anti-human insulin anti-drug antibodies that led to the Complete Response. As with all
          therapeutic protein products, immunogenicity is a potential safety concern, and the potential for
          immunogenicity should be adequately addressed in an NDA submission for a protein product.

          The Office of Biotechnology Products (OBP) reviewer, Dr. Bruce Huang, conducted the
          immunogenicity review of FIASP for the second cycle resubmission. It was concluded that the
          sponsor has adequately responded to the immunogenicity-related deficiencies in the CR letter
          and that the NDA is approvable from an immunogenicity perspective. An itemized list of the




Reference ID: 4159367
                       Recommended Regulatory Action

          Approval

          Approval is recommended because the Applicant has satisfied deficiencies related to the
          reliability of the bioanalytical method used to assess PK samples in the Clinical Pharmacology
          program and deficiencies related to the anti-insulin antibody assay validation as identified by the
          Office of Biotechnology Products review, and the application has otherwise met the regulatory
          standards for approval.

                       Risk Benefit Assessment

          The applicant has demonstrated in three adequate and well-controlled trials the glycemic efficacy
          of FIASP in patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes administered as bolus insulin either
          premeal/mealtime (0-2 minutes before meals) or post-meal (20 minutes after the meal). The
          tables below summarize the trials and the corresponding efficacy findings in the FIASP phase 3
          program.

          Phase 3 Efficacy and Safety Studies in FIASP Clinical Development Program
          3852 – T1DM                                           FIASP premeal vs. NovoLog premeal, both on basal
          26 weeks + 26 week extension                          insulin (blinded)
          Noninferiority study                                  FIASP postmeal vs. NovoLog premeal, both on basal
                                                                insulin Levemir (open-label)
          3853 – T2DM                                           FIASP premeal vs. NovoLog premeal, both on basal
          26 weeks                                              insulin glargine and metformin (blinded)
          Noninferiority study
          4049 – T2DM                                           FIASP premeal + basal insulin + metformin vs. basal
          18 weeks                                              insulin + metformin (open-label)
          Superiority study



               Treatment Group               N         Baseline     End of     LS Mean Change   Treatment Diff versus
                                                        Mean      Trial Mean    from Baseline    NovoLog (95% CI)
          Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus
          Trial 3852: 26-week basal-bolus in combination with insulin detemir
          Mealtime FIASP                381       7.62         7.31               -0.32           -0.15 (-0.23, -0.07)
          Postmeal FIASP                382       7.63         7.51               -0.13            0.04 (-0.04, 0.12)
          Mealtime NovoLog              380       7.58         7.42               -0.17
          Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
          Trial 3853: 26-week basal-bolus in combination with insulin glargine and metformin
          Mealtime FIASP                345       7.96         6.63               -1.38           -0.02 (-0.15, 0.10)
          Mealtime NovoLog              344       7.89         6.59               -1.36
          Trial 4049: 18-week basal-bolus versus basal in combination with metformin
          Mealtime FIASP +basal         116       7.93         6.78               -1.16          -0.94 (-1.17, -0.72)*
          Basal                         120       7.92         7.70               -0.22
          *Treatment difference versus basal insulin

          Active-control Trials 3852 and 3853 met the primary endpoints and demonstrated the non-
          inferiority of FIASP vs. NovoLog both given at mealtime (pre-specified non-inferiority margin
          of 0.4% for HbA1c). Superiority of FIASP plus basal insulin was superior to basal insulin alone




Reference ID: 4159367
          Appendix A – Deficiencies Listed in Complete Response Letter from First Cycle

          CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY

          The bioanalytical method used                                     (for the purpose of primary
                                                                     (b) (4)


          pharmacokinetic analyses) is deemed unreliable because of the issues listed below. As a result,
          the reliability of the pharmacokinetic data for all clinical pharmacology studies that used this
          method is called into question.
                                                                                                             (b) (4)




Reference ID: 4159367
          NDA to establish different aspects of the PK/PD profile of FIASP including
          pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) difference from NovoLog, dose-response
          relationship, injection site variation,
                                                           (b) (4)




          Therefore, proposing to quantify total insulin aspart concentrations from 3 studies has a number
          of limitations (listed below) which limits a comprehensive understanding of the PK/PD of FIASP
          and restricts the information that can be included in relevant sections of the proposed label. The
          limitations of quantifying total insulin aspart concentration from 3 studies are:

          a.    The data from select studies where total insulin is characterized for PK as a secondary
          measurement limits the comprehensive review of the clinical pharmacology data.

          b.      No data pertaining to the total insulin aspart concentrations from the meal challenge
          studies (mealtime, postmeal) will be assessed. We consider these studies as an integral part of
          comprehensive assessment of the PK/PD of FIASP.

          c.
                                                                                                            (b) (4)




          IMMUNOGENICITY

          There are multiple deficiencies regarding the validation of the radioimmunoprecipitation assay
          (RIA) for the detection of insulin aspart-specific and cross-reactive anti-human insulin anti-drug
          antibodies as listed below.

          10.     Validation Report 215373 describes the QC3 suitability control as a guinea pig
          polyclonal anti-human insulin (GPInsulin). Table 1-6 of Section 2.7.1 of the NDA (Summary
          of biopharmaceutic studies and associated analytical methods) describes QC3 as a polyclonal
          anti-insulin aspart antibody. Explain the discrepancy between the two descriptions of QC3 and
          indicate what immunogen was used to raise the QC3 antibodies used during the testing of
          clinical samples.

          11.     It is not clear whether the patient samples were diluted prior to testing. If patient samples
          are diluted prior to testing, provide data demonstrating the suitability of the minimum required
          dilution.

          12.     Serum samples were tested in three parallel conditions: D, E, and F. Conditions E and F
          involved competition with unlabeled insulin aspart and human insulin respectively. However, the
          concentrations of unlabeled insulin aspart and human insulin used in the assay are not provided.
          Indicate the concentrations of unlabeled insulin aspart and human insulin used in the assay as
          well as the rationale for the selected concentrations.




Reference ID: 4159367
          13.     You did not provide data demonstrating the tolerance of the assay to on-board insulin
          aspart. The tolerance of the assay to human insulin was determined during assay development
          but supporting data was not provided. Provide data demonstrating the assay tolerance of insulin
          aspart and human insulin to ensure that on-board levels of these proteins will not interfere with
          assay performance.

          14.     The levels of total anti-drug antibodies (ADA), insulin aspart-specific antibodies, and
          antibodies cross-reactive with human insulin are quantitated using the percentage of total
          radiolabeled tracer (insulin aspart) that is co-precipitated with Ig (%B/T). However, there is
          insufficient data in the Validation Reports to demonstrate that the assay is quantitative. One
          approach to address this deficiency and support the use of the %B/T value as a quantitative
          measure of antibodies in patient samples would be to demonstrate that there is a linear
          relationship between the positive control antibody concentration and the %B/T signal. Include a
          graphical and tabular analysis for each series (D, E, F) and the subtracted (D-E, D-F, F-E)
          values.

          15.     Section 2.7.1 Table 1-6 indicates that the two positive suitability controls used for
          analysis of clinical samples were QC2 (monoclonal anti-insulin aspart, 560 ng/ml) and QC3
          (guinea pig polyclonal anti-human insulin antibody, 23-230 ng/ml). The sensitivity analysis
          described in Validation Report 215373 indicates that both QC2 and QC3 are toward the upper
          limit of quantitation of the assay. This raises concerns that your suitability controls are
          inadequate to ensure the detection of low levels of ADA. Low positive controls should be set to
          have a 1% failure rate based on the assay cutpoint. Indicate how the detection of low levels of
          ADA was demonstrated during clinical testing. For guidance refer to the draft “Guidance for
          Industry: Assay Development and Validation for Immunogenicity Testing of Therapeutic Protein
          Products,” April 2016.

          16.    Some of the assay parameters, such as intra-assay precision, inter-assay precision, and
          robustness, were validated by analyzing only the D-E series. However, the clinical samples were
          evaluated using the D-F and F-E series. Therefore, assay parameters validated using only the D-
          E conditions need to be validated using the D-F and F-E series.

          17.     You did not provide data demonstrating the stability of the positive control antibodies
          used during the testing of clinical samples. In order to demonstrate that the X14-6F34 and GPa
          Insulin antibodies remain stable under normal testing conditions assess the performance of the
          antibodies under long-term storage, freeze-thaw, and benchtop conditions.

          18.    The acceptance criteria used for the QC2 and QC3 suitability controls were calculated
          from a nominal value for each control +/- 20%. It is unclear how the nominal values for QC2 and
          QC3 indicated in Table 1-6 of Section 2.7.1 were calculated or what the upper and lower
          acceptance limits were for each series. Provide a description of how the calculations were done




Reference ID: 4159367
          to establish the acceptance criteria for the suitability controls (including the QCneg) used during
          testing of clinical samples.

          19.     Validation data for the labeling efficiency, batch-to-batch consistency, and stability of the
          radiolabeled insulin aspart tracer were not provided. Provide data validating these attributes of
          the radiolabeled insulin aspart tracer used in the RIA.




Reference ID: 4159367
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
     electronically and this page is the manifestation of the electronic
     signature.
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     /s/
     ----------------------------------------------------
     LISA B YANOFF
     09/27/2017

     JEAN-MARC P GUETTIER
     09/27/2017
     I agree that the deficiencies identified in the first cycle of review have been adequately addressed
     in this resubmission. I concur with the recommendation to approve the application. My Benefit-
     Risk Summary and Assessment for the product is unchanged and can be found in the Division
     Director Summary Review in DARRTS under NDA208751 reference ID number 3996719. See this
     document for details.




Reference ID: 4159367
