               BLA 761109
                                                                                       BLA APPROVAL

               Eli Lilly and Company
               Attention: Christine A. Phillips, Ph.D., RAC
               Advisor, Global Regulatory Affairs,
               North America Diabetes
               Lilly Corporate Center
               Indianapolis, IN 46285


               Dear Dr. Phillips:

               Please refer to your biologics license application (BLA) dated and received
               August 15, 2019, and your amendments, submitted under section 351(a) of the Public
               Health Service Act for Lyumjev (insulin lispro-aabc) injection.

               We also refer to our approval letter dated June 15, 2020, which contained the following
               error: The PREA partial waivers were not included under the Required Pediatric
               Assessments section.

               This replacement approval letter incorporates the correction of the error. The effective
               approval date will remain June 15, 2020, the date of the original approval letter.

               LICENSING

               We have approved your BLA for Lyumjev (insulin lispro-aabc) effective this date. You
               are hereby authorized to introduce or deliver for introduction into interstate commerce,
               Lyumjev under your existing Department of Health and Human Services U.S. License
               No. 1891. Lyumjev is indicated to improve glycemic control in adults with diabetes
               mellitus.

               MANUFACTURING LOCATIONS

               Under this license, you are approved to manufacture insulin lispro-aabc drug substance
               at Lilly del Caribe, Inc. in Carolina, Puerto Rico and Eli Lilly and Company in
               Indianapolis, Indiana for purification and fill operations. The final formulated drug
               product will be manufactured and filled at Eli Lilly and Company in Indianapolis, Indiana.
               The vials will be labeled and packaged at Eli Lilly and Company in Indianapolis,
               Indiana. The cartridge and device will be labeled, packaged, and assembled at Eli Lilly
               and Company in Indianapolis, Indiana and Lilly France in Fegersheim, France. You may
               label your product with the proprietary name, Lyumjev, and market it in a pre-filled
               single-patient-use Tempo Pen (300 units/3 mL), Junior KwikPen (300 units/3 mL),
               U.S. Food and Drug Administration
               Silver Spring, MD 20993
               www.fda.gov


Reference ID: 4625979
               BLA 761109
               Page 2


               KwikPen (300 units/3 mL or 600 units/3 mL), in a multi-dose vial (1000 units/10 mL), or
               in a single-patient-use cartridge (300 units/3 mL).

               DATING PERIOD

               The dating period for Lyumjev shall be 24 months from the date of manufacture when
               stored at 2°C to 8°C. The date of manufacture shall be defined as the date of final
               sterile filtration of the formulated drug product. The dating period for your drug
                                       (b) (4)                                                    (b) (4)
               substance shall be              months from the date of manufacture when stored at

               We have approved the stability protocols in your license application for the purpose of
               extending the expiration dating period of your drug substance and drug product under
               21 CFR 601.12.

               FDA LOT RELEASE

               You are not currently required to submit samples of future lots of Lyumjev to the Center
               for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) for release by the Director, CDER, under 21
               CFR 610.2. We will continue to monitor compliance with 21 CFR 610.1, requiring
               completion of tests for conformity with standards applicable to each product prior to
               release of each lot.

               Any changes in the manufacturing, testing, packaging, or labeling of Lyumjev, or in the
               manufacturing facilities, will require the submission of information to your biologics
               license application for our review and written approval, consistent with 21 CFR 601.12.

               APPROVAL & LABELING

               We have completed our review of this application, as amended. It is approved, effective
               on the date of this letter, with minor editorial revisions listed below and reflected in the
               enclosed labeling.

               Issue dates added to labeling.

               WAIVER OF ½ PAGE LENGTH REQUIREMENT FOR HIGHLIGHTS

               We are waiving the requirements of 21 CFR 201.57(d)(8) regarding the length of
               Highlights of Prescribing Information. This waiver applies to all future supplements
               containing revised labeling unless we notify you otherwise.

               CONTENT OF LABELING

               As soon as possible, but no later than 14 days from the date of this letter, submit, via
               the FDA automated drug registration and listing system (eLIST), the content of labeling
               [21 CFR 601.14(b)] in structured product labeling (SPL) format, as described at




Reference ID: 4625979
               BLA 761109
               Page 3


               FDA.gov. 1 Content of labeling must be identical to the enclosed labeling (text for the
               Prescribing Information, Patient Package, and Insert, Instructions for Use). Information
               on submitting SPL files using eLIST may be found in the guidance for industry SPL
               Standard for Content of Labeling Technical Qs and As. 2

               The SPL will be accessible via publicly available labeling repositories.

               CARTON AND CONTAINER LABELING

               Submit final printed carton and container labeling that are identical to the enclosed
               carton and container labeling as soon as they are available, but no more than 30 days
               after they are printed. Please submit these labeling electronically according to the
               guidance for industry Providing Regulatory Submissions in Electronic Format — Certain
               Human Pharmaceutical Product Applications and Related Submissions Using the eCTD
               Specifications. For administrative purposes, designate this submission “Final Printed
               Carton and Container Labeling for approved BLA 761109.” Approval of this
               submission by FDA is not required before the labeling is used.

               ADVISORY COMMITTEE

               Your application for Lyumjev was not referred to an FDA advisory committee because
               outside expertise was not necessary; there were no controversial issues that would
               benefit from advisory committee discussion.

               REQUIRED PEDIATRIC ASSESSMENTS

               Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA) (21 U.S.C. 355c), all applications for
               new active ingredients (which includes new salts and new fixed combinations), new
               indications, new dosage forms, new dosing regimens, or new routes of administration
               are required to contain an assessment of the safety and effectiveness of the product for
               the claimed indication(s) in pediatric patients unless this requirement is waived,
               deferred, or inapplicable.

               We are waiving the pediatric studies requirement for type 1 diabetes mellitus in ages 0
               to < 1 year and type 2 diabetes mellitus in ages 0 to < 10 years because necessary
               studies are impossible or highly impracticable. This is because there are too few
               children in this age range with diabetes mellitus to study.

               We are deferring submission of your pediatric study for ages 1-17 years (inclusive) until
               June 2023, because this product is ready for approval for use in adults and the pediatric
               study has not been completed.

               1
                http://www.fda.gov/ForIndustry/DataStandards/StructuredProductLabeling/default.htm
               2
                We update guidances periodically. For the most recent version of a guidance, check the FDA Guidance
               Documents Database at https://www.fda.gov/RegulatoryInformation/Guidances/default.htm.




Reference ID: 4625979
               BLA 761109
               Page 4


               Your deferred pediatric study required under section 505B(a) of the Federal Food, Drug,
               and Cosmetic Act is required postmarketing study. The status of this postmarketing
               study must be reported annually according to 21 CFR 601.28 and section 505B(a)(4)(C)
               of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. This required study is listed below.

                    3874-1   Conduct a 26-week, randomized, controlled efficacy and safety study
                             comparing Lyumjev (insulin lispro-aabc) administered at mealtime and
                             Lyumjev (insulin lispro-aabc) administered 20 minutes postmeal to
                             Humalog administered at mealtime, in combination with long acting
                             insulin, in pediatric patients with type 1 diabetes ages 1 to 17 years
                             (inclusive).

                             Study Completion:        June 2022
                             Final Report Submission: June 2023

               Submit the protocol(s) to your IND 127210, with a cross-reference letter to this BLA.
               Reports of this required pediatric postmarketing study must be submitted as a biologics
               license application (BLA) or as a supplement to your approved BLA with the proposed
               labeling changes you believe are warranted based on the data derived from this study.
               When submitting the reports, please clearly mark your submission "SUBMISSION OF
               REQUIRED PEDIATRIC ASSESSMENTS" in large font, bolded type at the beginning of
               the cover letter of the submission.

               PROMOTIONAL MATERIALS

               You may request advisory comments on proposed introductory advertising and
               promotional labeling. For information about submitting promotional materials, see the
               final guidance for industry Providing Regulatory Submissions in Electronic and Non-
               Electronic Format-Promotional Labeling and Advertising Materials for Human
               Prescription Drugs. 3

               You must submit final promotional materials and Prescribing Information, accompanied
               by a Form FDA 2253, at the time of initial dissemination or publication
               [21 CFR 314.81(b)(3)(i)]. Form FDA 2253 is available at FDA.gov. 4 Information and
               Instructions for completing the form can be found at FDA.gov. 5

               REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

               You must submit adverse experience reports under the adverse experience reporting
               requirements for licensed biological products (21 CFR 600.80).

               Prominently identify all adverse experience reports as described in 21 CFR 600.80.
               3
                 For the most recent version of a guidance, check the FDA guidance web page at
               https://www.fda.gov/media/128163/download.
               4
                 http://www.fda.gov/downloads/AboutFDA/ReportsManualsForms/Forms/UCM083570.pdf
               5
                 http://www.fda.gov/downloads/AboutFDA/ReportsManualsForms/Forms/UCM375154.pdf




Reference ID: 4625979
               BLA 761109
               Page 5




               You must submit distribution reports under the distribution reporting requirements for
               licensed biological products (21 CFR 600.81).

               You must submit reports of biological product deviations under 21 CFR 600.14. You
               should promptly identify and investigate all manufacturing deviations, including those
               associated with processing, testing, packing, labeling, storage, holding and distribution.
               If the deviation involves a distributed product, may affect the safety, purity, or potency of
               the product, and meets the other criteria in the regulation, you must submit a report on
               Form FDA 3486 to:

                                       Food and Drug Administration
                                       Center for Drug Evaluation and Research
                                       Division of Compliance Risk Management and Surveillance
                                       5901-B Ammendale Road
                                       Beltsville, MD 20705-1266

               Biological product deviations, sent by courier or overnight mail, should be addressed to:

                                       Food and Drug Administration
                                       Center for Drug Evaluation and Research
                                       Division of Compliance Risk Management and Surveillance
                                       10903 New Hampshire Avenue, Bldg. 51, Room 4207
                                       Silver Spring, MD 20903

               MEDWATCH-TO-MANUFACTURER PROGRAM

               The MedWatch-to-Manufacturer Program provides manufacturers with copies of serious
               adverse event reports that are received directly by the FDA. New molecular entities and
               important new biologics qualify for inclusion for three years after approval. Your firm is
               eligible to receive copies of reports for this product. To participate in the program,
               please see the enrollment instructions and program description details at FDA.gov. 6




               6
                   http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch/HowToReport/ucm166910.htm




Reference ID: 4625979
               BLA 761109
               Page 6


               If you have any questions, call Callie Cappel-Lynch, Regulatory Project Manager, at
               (301) 796-8436.

                                                   Sincerely,
                                                   {See appended electronic signature page}

                                                   Patrick Archdeacon, M.D.
                                                   Associate Director for Therapeutics (Acting)
                                                   Division of Diabetes, Lipid Disorders, and Obesity
                                                   Office of Cardiology, Hematology, Endocrinology,
                                                   and Nephrology
                                                   Center for Drug Evaluation and Research

               ENCLOSURES:
                 • Content of Labeling
                      o Prescribing Information
                      o Patient Package Insert
                      o Instructions for Use
                 • Carton and Container Labeling




Reference ID: 4625979
(

                                                                                                        Signature Page 1 of 1

              --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
              electronically. Following this are manifestations of any and all
              electronic signatures for this electronic record.
              --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              /s/
              ------------------------------------------------------------

              PATRICK ARCHDEACON
              06/15/2020 12:00:00 AM




    Reference ID: 4625979
