CENTER FOR DRUG EVALUATION AND
           RESEARCH


       APPLICATION NUMBER:
        206538Orig1s000

      SUMMARY REVIEW
              Division Director Review



                                     Signatory Authority Review Template


                    1. Introduction
              On April 25, 2014 Sanofi-Aventis submitted a new drug application for Toujeo under section
              505(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.

              Toujeo is a sterile solution containing 300 units of insulin glargine per mL. Sanofi-aventis also
              owns and markets Lantus, a sterile solution containing 100 units of insulin glargine per mL
              (NDA# 21081).

              The applicant is seeking to indicate Toujeo to improve glycemic control in adults with
              diabetes mellitus. Toujeo is a drug-device combination product. The presentation is a
              disposable pen, with an irreversibly integrated 1.5 mL cartridge pre-filled with a sterile drug
              product solution. The drug product is to be administered once daily by subcutaneous
              injection and the dose is to be individualized according to the individual’s metabolic needs,
              blood glucose monitoring results, and glycemic control goal.

              Toujeo will be the second concentrated insulin (i.e., insulin with a potency of > 100 units/mL)
              available on the US market. The other concentrated insulin is a vial presentation of a 5-fold
              concentrated solution of regular insulin [Humulin R (U500)]. Concentrated insulins may be
              useful for insulin resistant patients requiring large amounts of insulin per day (i.e., >200 units)
              because they obviate the need for delivering a large insulin dose1 by way of two or more
              injections.

              Medication and dosing errors resulting in serious unintended consequences (i.e., severe
              hypoglycemia from unintentional overdose) have been a major problem with the Humulin R
              (U500) vial presentation (NDA#18780). These errors stem in part from the fact that no
              dedicated devices are available to administer the insulin leaving patients and caregivers with
              the burden of performing volumetric conversions to calculate dose. Dosing errors are
              expected to be less of an issue with Toujeo because the presentation is not in vial form, the
              delivery device is specifically designed to deliver the U300 formulation and no dose
              calculation/volumetric conversion is required for dosing and administration. Furthermore,
              the cartridge is irreversibly integrated in the pen device and cannot be easily removed from
              the device. This will further limit the possibility of dosing errors arising from administration
              with insulin syringes calibrated for 100 units/mL products.




              1
                  Note: The current Toujeo device can only administer a maximum of 80 units at a time.


              Page 2 of 16

Reference ID: 3707918
              Division Director Review



              Concentrated insulins, owing to slower systemic absorption, have distinct pharmacodynamic
              properties which in some case may more closely approximate basal physiologic pancreatic
              insulin secretion and result in improved glycemic control.

                     2. Background
              Drs. Yanoff and Condarco have summarized the regulatory history for the application (refer
              to Section 2 of their respective reviews). In brief, the applicant had initially proposed to
              qualify the new glargine dosage strength by demonstrating bioequivalence (BE) between
              Toujeo (insulin glargine, 300 units/mL) and Lantus (insulin glargine, 100 units/mL) and the
              Division agreed with this approach. The BE study demonstrated that the two formulations
              were not bioequivalent. The applicant, encouraged by the product PK/PD profile, proposed
              to establish the safety and effectiveness of the new dosage strength in four pivotal trials. The
              intent of these trials was to; first establish glycemic non-inferiority to Lantus, then glycemic
              superiority to Lantus (referred to as a “second” primary endpoint), then superiority on a
              hypoglycemia related endpoint2. There was no disagreements regarding the primary efficacy
              objective (demonstration of change in HbA1c non-inferiority) or proposed trial designs to
              reach this objective. Areas of discussions and disagreements focused mostly on the
              adequacy of proposed secondary endpoints to address the third objective                      (b) (4)


                                                                                                  The detailed
              interactions and advice given to the applicant by Division on this topic are described in Dr.
              Condarco’s review.

                     3. CMC/Device
              I concur with the conclusions reached by the chemistry reviewer, Dr. Ysern, regarding the
              acceptability of the manufacturing of the drug product and drug substance. Manufacturing
              site inspections were acceptable. Stability testing supports an expiry of 30 months between
              2 °C and 8 °C protected from light for unopened product and expiry of (b)          (4) days at room

              temperature (up to 30 °C) protected from light for opened (i.e., in use) product. There are no
              outstanding issues related to CMC, device engineering or human factors/usability (refer to Dr.
              Yanoff’s CDTL summary for details). Particularly, the human factors study demonstrated that
              users are able to use the prefilled pen safely and effectively with no reported instances of
              calculation errors (i.e. multiplying or dividing by 3, resulting in 3-fold over or under doses).

                     4. Nonclinical Pharmacology/Toxicology
              I concur with the conclusions reached by, Dr. Quinn, the pharmacology/toxicology reviewer
              that there are no outstanding pharmacology toxicology issues that preclude approval. The
              toxicology data submitted for the approval of Lantus (insulin glargine, 100 U/mL) support the
              2
                  Refer to page 44 of the Statistical Analysis Plans for Studies EFC11628 and EFC11629




              Page 3 of 16

Reference ID: 3707918
              Division Director Review



              approval of Toujeo. A local tolerance study was conducted to bridge Toujeo to Lantus.
              Toujeo and Lantus displayed similar local tolerability in rabbits following subcutaneous
              injection.


                  5.         Clinical Pharmacology/Biopharmaceutics

              I concur with the conclusions reached by the clinical pharmacology/biopharmaceutics
              reviewer that there are no outstanding clinical pharmacology issues that preclude approval.
              Refer to Dr. Lau’s and Yanoff’s reviews for details. PK/PD data support a recommendation for
              once daily administration. Toujeo compared to Lantus has a longer terminal half-life3 and
              greater intra-individual variability4. The glucose lowering effect of Toujeo begins to wane
              approximately 30 hours after injection compared to 26 hours for Lantus (refer to Figure 5 in
              Dr. Yanoff’s review), suggesting Toujeo is slightly longer lasting than Lantus.       Although
              greater intra-individual variability raises concerns with regard to day-to-day performance-
              reproducibility and the impact this may have on glycemic control (i.e., risks of highs and low
              glucose), Phase 3 clinical trial data did not reveal any major or concerning differences
              between the two insulins on glycemic control (i.e., adverse reactions related to hyper or
              hypoglycemia) at the end of 26-weeks (refer to Dr. Condarco’s review).

              The major clinical pharmacology issue identified in the clinical pharmacology review was a
              lack of unit-to-unit (i.e., dose-to-dose) potency (i.e., glucose lowering effect) equivalence
              between Toujeo and Lantus. Single dose and steady state clinical pharmacology studies
              revealed that, on a unit-to-unit basis, Toujeo has less glucose lowering effect than Lantus.
              Table 7 in Dr. Lau’s review compares the maximum (GIR max)5 and overall glucose lowering
              effects (GIR-AUC)6 of Toujeo relative to Lantus when equivalent doses [0.4 units per kilogram
              (U/kg)] of the two drugs are administered once daily for eight days to patients with type 1
              diabetes. The maximum glucose lowering effect achieved with Toujeo was ~ 19% lower than
              that of Lantus and the overall glucose lowering in the 24 and 36 hours that followed the
              injection was also lower relative to Lantus by 27% and 15% respectively.




              3
                19 versus 13 hours for Toujeo versus Lantus
              4
                Maximum and overall glucose lowering variability based on a coefficient of variation comparison is 2-fold
              higher in Toujeo versus Lantus
              5
                Glucose infusion rate maximum (GIR max)
              6
                Area under the glucose infusion rate (GIR-AUC)


              Page 4 of 16

Reference ID: 3707918
              Division Director Review



              difference (i.e., the flatter and longer steady state PK profile). It is likely that lowering the
              dose of Lantus to match the lower effectiveness of Toujeo would have achieved the same
              salutary effect on hypoglycemia rate. This will be discussed further in the Section 6 and 7 of
              this memorandum.

              The Office of Clinical Pharmacology raised several questions with regards to the observation
              of the lack of in vivo unit-to-unit potency equivalence between Toujeo and Lantus. They did
              not agree with the applicant’s proposal                                                  (b) (4)




              The CMC and clinical teams did not agree                                                      (b) (4)


                                                                               From a CMC perspective, the
              strength (nmoles/mL) and potency (U/mL) of Toujeo was adequately characterized. One unit
              of insulin glargine is defined as the activity contained in 36.4 mcg of glargine (6 nmoles) per
              the European Pharmacopeia standard. To establish the potency of Toujeo, the mass (mg)
              amount of insulin glargine in Toujeo was measured by chromatography and converted to
              units using the European Pharmacopeia insulin glargine standard. The applicant, using the
              same batch of Toujeo, compared the chromatography derived potency to potency derived
              using a bioassay and confirmed that both strength (1800 nmoles/mL) and potency (300
              U/mL) were preserved for Toujeo.

              From a clinical perspective, the lack of unit-to-unit PD equivalence between Toujeo and
              Lantus could potentially lead to worsening glycemic control when converting from Lantus to
              Toujeo and better glycemic control when converting from Toujeo to Lantus in the care
              setting. The risk of the former was evaluated in clinical trials. In the early part of the trials,
              night time glycemic control (using fasting pre-breakfast SMBG as a surrogate) was worst on
              Toujeo than on Lantus but no serious hyperglycemia related issues (i.e., DKA or hyperosmolar
              hyperglycemia coma) were identified for either patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes
              mellitus. In these trials, the lower Toujeo effectiveness was eventually overcome by using
              higher doses of Toujeo as reflected by the end of the trial Toujeo dose which was 12-19%
              higher than Lantus dose. Titration of Toujeo will occur in the care setting as doses of all
              insulins are individualized to target patient specific goals. Care givers will be instructed to
              monitor glucose frequently in the first month after Toujeo is initiated to minimize the risk of
              hyperglycemia while transitioning to Toujeo. The risk of slightly worst glycemic control when
              switching from one insulin to the next is a potential issue with currently marketed basal
              insulins (i.e., NPH, glargine, detemir).




              Page 6 of 16

Reference ID: 3707918
              Division Director Review



              In the care setting, converting from Toujeo to Lantus could potentially lead to an increase in
              glucose lowering of approximately of 10-20%8 placing patients at increased risk for
              hypoglycemia. Switching between insulin preparations in the care setting should be done
              only under close supervision because it is widely recognized that each insulin preparation has
              slightly different PK/PD characteristics. The risk of hypoglycemia in this setting is labeled for
              all insulin products. The clinical team felt that the risks of hyper and hypoglycemia specific to
              the fact that this product shares an active ingredient with an already labeled product but has
              distinct pharmacodynamics could be adequately mitigated through Sections 2 (Dosage and
              Administration), 5 (Warning and Precautions) and 12 (Clinical Pharmacology) of the product
              label.


                  6. Clinical Microbiology
              I concur with the conclusions reached by the clinical microbiology reviewer that there are no
              outstanding clinical microbiology or sterility issues that preclude approval.


                  7. Clinical/Statistical-Efficacy
              Details of the trial design and analyses can be found in Dr. Condarco’s and Kettermann’s
              reviews. Dr. Yanoff has also summarized efficacy results in her CDTL memorandum. No
              efficacy issues that preclude approval were identified in the reviews.

              The applicant relies on four clinical trials to support the indication. The four pivotal trials
              were randomized, open-label, parallel group, trials comparing Toujeo to Lantus across the
              following patient populations and clinical use scenarios.

              •         Trial EFC12456: Patients with type 1 diabetes inadequately controlled on multiple
                        daily insulin injections (i.e., basal/bolus insulin therapy switch study)
              •         Trial EFC11628: Patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on multiple
                        daily insulin injections (i.e., basal/bolus insulin therapy switch study)
              •         Trial EFC11629: Patient with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on basal insulin
                        injections in combination with oral antidiabetic therapies (basal insulin therapy
                        switch study)
              •         Trial EFC12347: Patients on with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on oral anti-
                        diabetic medications (add-on to oral anti-diabetic in insulin naïve patient study)




              8
                To provide context on the magnitude of this doses increase; a 10% dose increase was recommended for
              patients not optimally controlled on their dose of basal insulin in the type 1 DM clinical trial Trial#12456. In the
              care setting it would not be uncommon for a physician to increase insulin dose by 10% for patients not
              optimized on their current insulin regimen.


              Page 7 of 16

Reference ID: 3707918
              Division Director Review



              The primary objective for each trial was to demonstrate that the change in Hemoglobin A1c
              from baseline to Week 26 in the Toujeo arm was not worse than the change in Hemoglobin
              A1c from baseline to Week 26 in the Lantus arm by a difference of 0.4% or more (i.e., non-
              inferiority comparison with a non-inferiority margin set at 0.4%).

              In the three ‘switch’ studies, patients transitioned from their pre-trial basal insulin dose to
              the intervention insulin dose using the same scheme9 for both Lantus and Toujeo. In the add-
              on to oral anti-diabetic drug trial, patients were initiated on a 0.2 units/kg dose of either
              Toujeo or Lantus. At randomization, baseline insulin dose in units/kg were identical across
              intervention groups (i.e., Lantus and Toujeo) for each of the four trials10. The trials employed
              a basal insulin (i.e., Lantus and Toujeo) titration scheme targeting a pre-breakfast self-
              monitored glucose between 80 to 130 mg/dL in the type 1 diabetes trial and 80 to 100 mg/dL
              in the type 2 diabetes. Dose increases in basal insulin could occur no more frequently than
              every 3-4 days. The dosing scheme (initial dose and titration) which, at randomization,
              assumed that the two insulins are equally effective on a unit-to-unit basis impacts
              interpretation of the hypoglycemia data. This is discussed in Section 5 and 7 of this
              memorandum.

              Across all trials, baseline demographics and disease characteristics were balanced and no
              major issues in study design or execution that would impact primary efficacy analyses or
              interpretation were identified. The primary analysis was based on a modified intent to treat
              population. To handle data missing at 26 weeks, the applicant relied on both a Last
              Observation Carried Forward (LOCF) strategy and on a Mixed Model Repeated Measures
              (MMRM) strategy. Although Dr. Kettermann points to inadequacies in both of these
              methodologies with regard to estimating the true value of the data missing at 26 weeks, she
              was reassured by the relatively small amount of data missing and the consistency across
              results obtained using the two imputation methods. She concludes that missing data is not a
              primary decisive factor in this application.

              Dr. Yanoff has summarized the main efficacy findings and results of analyses using two
              missing data imputation methods in Table 2 of her CDTL memorandum. This table is
              reproduced below for convenience. Across all four studies, Toujeo was found to offer a level
              of HbA1c control that was non-inferior to that of Lantus after 26 weeks of treatment.
              Subgroup analyses did not reveal significant interactions across regions, baseline
              demographic or disease characteristics.




              9
                  Refer to Table 6 in Dr. Condarco’s review.
              10
                   Refer to Table 12 in Dr. Condarco’s review.


              Page 8 of 16

Reference ID: 3707918
              Division Director Review



                              Figure 2: Pre-breakfast SMBG by Visit; Type 2 Diabetes TEFC11628-Basal Bolus Trial




                        Figure 3: Pre-breakfast SMBG by visit; Type 2 Diabetes EFC11629-Basal add-on to OAD Trial




              Page 10 of 16

Reference ID: 3707918
              Division Director Review



                          Figure 4: Pre-breakfast SMBG by visit; Type 2 Diabetes EFC12347-Basal add-on to OAD Trial




              This differential effectiveness in the early part of the trial was corroborated by the
              observation of a consistently larger magnitude of dose increase in the Toujeo arm for each
              study visit in each of the four trials. Recall that the titration algorithm was similar between
              arms and differential dose increase was driven entirely by differences in fasting morning
              SMBG (Refer to figures 11, 17, 23, and 29 in Dr. Condarco’s review for graphs of consecutive
              dose increase by visit in each of the four trials).

              The differential unit-to-unit effectiveness of the two insulins was eventually overcome with
              differential dose titration [both basal and and when applicable bolus insulin) and did not
              result in large HbA1c differences at Week-26. Recall that HbA1c is a "weighted" average of
              blood glucose levels for the 120 days that precede the test. It is a “weighted” average
              because glucose levels in the 30 days preceding the test contribute substantially more to the
              level of HbA1c than do glucose levels between days 90 to 120. This may partly explain why
              the level of glucose control can be different early in the trial and still be roughly similar at trial
              end in a 26 week trial.

              Another reason could be that similarities in glucose control in the daytime (~3/4 of the hours
              in a 24 hour period) mask differences in nighttime effectiveness (~1/4 of the hours in a 24
              hour period) and that HbA1c is insufficiently sensitive to detect these differences. The
              applicant points to 24 hour average self-measured blood glucose (point-of-care derived)
              profiles to claim that overall no difference in SMBG reported glycemic control was observed
              across seven consecutive time points in the trial. Two trials show a trend towards
              numerically worst control on Toujeo across all time points (ECF12456 and ECF12347)11 and
              two trials show differences in a few early and late time points (i.e., Week 2 and 4; ECF11628
              and ECF11629)12 also suggesting numerically worst control on Toujeo. These analyses are less
              granular than the Pre-Breakfast SMBG analyses (i.e., fewer time points considered) and real

              11
                   Refer to figures 12 and 30 in Dr. Condarco’s review
              12
                   Refer to figures 19 and 24 in Dr. Condarco’s review


              Page 11 of 16

Reference ID: 3707918
              Division Director Review



              differences in nighttime effectiveness (i.e., ascertained by two time points; 3 AM and pre-
              breakfast) for a part of the day could be masked by the more numerous time points obtained
              during waking hours (i.e., post-breakfast, pre-lunch, post-lunch, pre-dinner, post-dinner,
              bedtime).


                  8. Safety

              Drs. Yanoff and Condarco have summarized the main safety findings in the application. The
              main safety database comprised of 304 and 1242 patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes
              respectively exposed to Toujeo. The median exposure duration was 183 days in both groups.
              Seventy six and 89 percent of patients with type 1 and 2 diabetes were exposed for at least
              25 weeks respectively. The total exposure at 6 months is consistent with the FDA draft
              guidance for products to treat diabetes mellitus. Although there is relatively sparse 1-year
              data the active ingredient is not a new molecular entity and the exposure number and
              duration were judged to be sufficient for filing. No new concerning safety signal that would
              preclude approval was identified in the safety analyses. I agree with Dr. Yanoff’s summary of
              the main safety findings which are repeated below in italics.

              “Notable findings from these safety assessments include:

                       Injection site reactions and Hypersensitivity reactions were relatively balanced
                        between treatment groups and generally consistent with current Lantus labeling. The
                        incidence of injection site reactions is shown below. The most common preferred
                        terms were ‘injection site bruising’ and ‘injection site pain’. There were no serious
                        reactions.

                                                      T1DM                       T2DM
                                                      Toujeo      Lantus         Toujeo       Lantus
                        Any injection site reaction   2.6%        1.6%           2.4%         3.1%

                       There was no apparent imbalance in CV risk although the incidence of any MACE event
                        was only about 1% or less in both treatment groups.
                       There were no reported accidental ‘overdose’ of U300 due to misunderstanding of the
                        concentration of the formulation
                       There were two reports of ‘hyperglycemia’ during the first week of randomized
                        therapy – one in each treatment group suggesting no clinically important implications
                        of the lesser PD effect of U300 within this early time frame. There were no reports of
                        diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) or severe hyperglycemia.
                       There were no important differences in body weight between Toujeo and Lantus
                        treated patients.

              Common Adverse Events:



              Page 12 of 16

Reference ID: 3707918
              Division Director Review



              Common adverse events were comparable between Toujeo and Lantus. The only adverse
              events (other than hypoglycemia) reported with a frequency ≥5% and more commonly with
              Toujeo were nasopharyngitis and upper respiratory tract infection. These are unlikely to be
              related to insulin use.

                                                      T1DM                    T2DM
                                                      Toujeo    Lantus        Toujeo        Lantus
                  Nasopharyngitis                     12.8%     10.9%         7.1%          5.8%
                  Upper respiratory tract infection   9.5%      7.6%          5.7%          5.4%

              Other Safety Analyses:
              All other routine safety analyses such as laboratory findings, vital signs, electrocardiograms
              were reviewed by Dr. Condarco and found to be unremarkable.

              In addition, the difference in insulin effectiveness noted in Section 7 may impact risks of
              hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia while transitioning to or from Toujeo. Risks may be
              amplified in the care setting as compared to the clinical trial setting because monitoring will
              be less frequent. Labeling will be used to emphasize the fact that Toujeo and Lantus products
              have distinct pharmacokinetics that could impact effectiveness during transition if wrong
              assumptions are made. Instructions to physicians in the Dosing and Administration,
              Warnings and Precautions, and Clinical Pharmacology Sections of the full prescribing
              information will be used to minimize this risk.

              Hypoglycemia in the Toujeo Program

              Too few patients experienced at least one event of severe hypoglycemia (i.e., third party
              assistance required for recovery) across the four trials to draw meaningful conclusions from
              these analyses and no unexpected large imbalance in any arm or trial was observed (the two
              basal bolus trials had the highest risk as expected). Dr. Yanoff in Table 5 of her CDTL shows
              that larger numerical differences in the proportion of patients experiencing at least one
              episode of severe hypoglycemia were observed in the early part of the trial when glycemic
              control, and particularly nighttime glycemic control, was worst on Toujeo.

              In the type 1 diabetes trial a similar proportion of patients experienced at least one episode
              of hypoglycemia across multiple definitions of hypoglycemia which; aim to capture less-
              severe hypoglycemic episodes and differ in their diagnostic sensitivity/specificity (See Table
              48 in Dr. Condarco’s review). Across the three type 2 diabetes trials, numerically fewer
              patients experienced at least one episode of these less-severe hypoglycemia episodes (refer
              to Tables 51, 53, and 55 in Dr. Condarco’s review). Analyses that split the trial timeline into
              Week 0 to 8 and Week 9 to 24 reveal that the greatest numerical difference between Toujeo
              and Lantus is observed between Week 0 to 8 when glycemic control was worst on Toujeo
              (refer to Tables 52 and 54 in Dr. Condarco’s review). These analyses are consistent with lead
              time analyses performed by Dr. Kettermann and shown in Table 13 of her review.



              Page 13 of 16

Reference ID: 3707918
              Division Director Review


                                                                             (b) (4)
                                                                                       The Division believes that
                                                                                                   (b) (4)
                                                                                                           would be
              misleading as it is unsubstantiated by substantial evidence.


                                                                                                               (b) (4)




                  9. Advisory Committee Meeting
              No new efficacy or safety issue rose to the level of requiring the input from an advisory panel.
              Therefore no advisory committee was convened.

                  10.            Pediatrics

              This product does not trigger PREA because it does not involve a new active ingredient, new
              indication, route of administration, dosage form, or dosing regimen. See Dr. Yanoff’s review
              for additional details.

                  11.            Other Relevant Regulatory Issues
              No issues were identified, refer to Drs. Yanoff and Condarco’s reviews for details.


                  12.            Labeling

              Dr. Yanoff has summarized labeling issues in her CDTL memorandum and I have summarized
              issues                                               (b) (4)
                                                                           in Section 7 of this memorandum.

                  13.            Decision/Action/Risk Benefit Assessment

                  Regulatory Action
              Approval

                       Risk Benefit Assessment



              Page 15 of 16

Reference ID: 3707918
              Division Director Review



              The applicant established the efficacy and safety of Toujeo in patients with Type 1 and Type 2
              diabetes mellitus across several, relevant, clinical use scenarios. Toujeo administered once
              daily and titrated to goal resulted in levels of HbA1c reduction which were non-inferior to
              those observed in Lantus at the end of 26-weeks. The safety of Toujeo was not clinically
              meaningfully different than the safety of the approved product Lantus.                    PK/PD
              characterization revealed that less glargine insulin is systemically absorbed when it is
              administered as Toujeo compared to Lantus and that Toujeo has less glucose lowering effect
              on a unit-to-unit basis compared to Lantus. Risks of hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia, and
              inadequate insulinization when transitioning to or from Toujeo have been discussed in
              Section 5 of this memo and addressed in specific sections of product labeling. Issues related
              to real or potential overdose associated with confusion stemming from differences in
              strengths between Toujeo (1800 nmol/mL) and Lantus (600 nmol/mL) were not observed in
              clinical trials or Human Factor studies. Strength (insulin potency) will be clearly labeled. The
              fact that a dedicated device, which is not easily tampered with, is used for product
              administration mitigates this risk as well. We did not agree with the applicant’s conclusion
              that the data in the application provide conclusive evidence that Toujeo is comparatively
              safer than Lantus from a hypoglycemia risk perspective. This issue is discussed in Section 5,
              6, and 7 of this memorandum.

                       Recommendation for Postmarketing Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies

              No new safety findings from this clinical development program prompt the need for a
              postmarketing risk evaluation and management strategies.

                       Recommendation for other Postmarketing Requirements and Commitments

              No new safety findings from this clinical development program prompt the need for a
              postmarketing requirements and commitments.




              Page 16 of 16

Reference ID: 3707918
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     This is a representation of an electronic record that was signed
     electronically and this page is the manifestation of the electronic
     signature.
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     /s/
     ----------------------------------------------------
     JEAN-MARC P GUETTIER
     02/25/2015




Reference ID: 3707918
